Whitepaper v2, September 2020

CONTENTS
GLOSSARY
APPENDIX
ABSTRACT

1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Misinformation and Manipulation in the Crypto Space
1.2 New Market Cycle, Same Scheme
1.3 A More Measured Approach from FERA
1.4 DISCLAIMER

2. INTRODUCING THE PARAGON REPORT
1.1 Finding Diamonds in the Rough
1.2 A Steadying Force in a Turbulent Market

3. INSIDE THE PARAGON REPORT
3.1 The Gem Value Guide
3.2 Assessing a Variety of Metrics
3.3 The Paragon Plans on Offer

4. THE PANOPTICON PLATFORM: A VIEW OF THE HIDDEN GEM SPACE
4.1 A Decentralised Database
4.2 A Democratic Voting System

5. POWERING THE ECOSYSTEM WITH THE FERA TOKEN
5.1 Earning A Passive Income
5.2 The FERA Buy Back Scheme
5.3 The FERA Burning Scheme
5.4 Locked Liquidity for Investors

6. THE TEAM BEHIND FERA

GLOSSARY
Throughout this Whitepaper we use a number of colloquial terms that may be unfamiliar
to those new to the crypto space. Please refer to this section for explanations of
terminology.

All Time High – The highest price point that a coin has reached.
Decentralised Finance (DeFi) – Platforms that offer investors loans, insurance, and
derivatives without a centralised third-party as seen in traditional finance.
Exit Scam – A ploy in which a company ceases to issue new products whilst still taking
orders. The scammers then suddenly exit with the investors’ money without giving
them anything in return. This has happened multiple times with cryptocurrency
exchanges.
Low-CapCoins – Coins with a market cap less than $10 million, regarded as being higher
risk.
Hidden Gem – A relatively unknown low-cap coin with potential to dramatically increase
in price.
Market Capitalisation – The total value of the coin, calculated by multiplying the number
of coins in circulation by the price of each coin.
Microcap Coins– Coins with the lowest cap under $3 million and therefore the highest
risk.
Pump and Dump – A rapid artificial increase in cryptocurrency price, often through
manipulation, followed by a sharp decline in value. These schemes often result in huge
losses for investors.
Rug – Pull – A fraudulent scheme whereby the token creators who provide liquidity pull
it from the pool preventing exchanges and causing the price to collapse.
Smart Contract – Tamper proof and therefore trustless applications which are executed
between parties on a decentralised network such as a blockchain.
YouTube Influencers – Prominent YouTube content creators whose promotional videos
can have a significant but short-lived impact on the price of the token.

APPENDIX
APR - Annual Percentage Return
BTC – Bitcoin
CPM - Cost per thousand views
ETH – Etherum
HG – Hidden gems
P&D – Pump and dump
ROI – Return of Investment
TA – Technical Analysis

ABSTRACT
The cryptocurrency space offers huge opportunities for investors but also carries a
significant risk. Still in its infancy, the market is rife with scams and price fluctuations
are heavily impacted by prominent figures who lure people into projects which they
have a vested interest in. FERA offers an antidote to misinformation and false
promises with reports on new coins backed by data science and composed by an
experienced team of financial analysts. Additionally, FERA will release a decentralised
application to compliment the investment reports and optimise users' investment
decisions.

1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 MISINFORMATION AND MANIPULATION IN THE CRYPTO SPACE
Cryptocurrencies have rapidly grown in popularity in recent due in part to their
revolutionary technology1 but primarily because of their investment opportunities2. The
latter half of 2017 saw a surge in interest from the public and an enormous influx of new
retail investors due to the parabolic increase in the price of Bitcoin and Altcoins. This
period also saw the rise of multiple P&D schemes in the cryptocurrency world. P&D
schemes involve manipulation of a token’s price by investors who take out longpositions and artificially drive the price up before offloading their holdings onto
subsequent buyers3. The University of Technology in Sydney analysed just two
exchanges over a seven-month timeframe and found 355 cases of such schemes with
an average price increase of 65%3. In 2018, due to numerous complaints received, the
US Commodities and Futures Trading Commission issued a warning about P&D
schemes, stating that they had already lost US investors tens of millions of dollars44.
P&D groups across social media networks and YouTube influencers seek to exploit the
euphoria of the crypto market by recommending new and upcoming coins known as
“hidden gems” to followers. Such groups recklessly promise huge returns at the
expense of their followers. This strategy is highly lucrative for influencers, who often
require fees for promotional content, which can range from $500 to $1500 CPM for
prominent content creators5. Moreover, influencers have a vested interest in the coin’s
immediate price as they will hold themselves in anticipation of its pump, thereby
profiting from the substantial increase in the coin’s value. This would often be to the
detriment of many of their followers, who typically buy at the top of the pump, only to
see the coin abruptly dump as early investors sell off their holdings causing the price to
go into free-fall. Consequently, many individuals would be left holding coins, which had
plunged in value, in extreme cases rendering them virtually worthless.
These schemes provided extremely successful for influencers throughout the huge
uptrend in fall of 2017. Each coin “call” would swiftly result in a rapid artificial pump in
its value, making quick profits for the P&D groups and influencers to the detriment of
many of their followers. Groups and influencers with the largest followings had the
1

Nakomato, S. (2009) Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. www.bitcoin.org.

2

Lielacher. A. (2017) Bitcoin as an Investment: Opportunities and Risks. www.nasdaq.com

3

Dhawan, A. Putnins, T.J. (2020) A New Wolf In Town? Pump-And-Dump Manipulation in Cryptocurrency Markets.
The University of Technology. Sydney.
4

Williams-Grut, O. (2018) US finance watchdog warns investors: “beware virtual currency pump-and-dump schemes”.
www.businessinsider.com
5 Clay, H. (2018) Working With Crypto Influencers and What Fees to Expect. Block Influence. Medium.

power to pump the price of a relatively established coin (over $10 million market cap) by
often in excess of 50-100% in a matter of hours. Ultimately, many people who put their
trust in these groups and influencers lost substantial amounts of their investments as
the parabolic move in the market was immediately followed by a catastrophic crash in
January 20186. Many of the coins have since never recovered and most likely never will,
others have simply vanished from the market altogether.

1.2 NEW MARKET CYCLE, SAME SCHEME
It is clear that at the time of writing, the market has seen resurgence in interest and new
investors, higher volume, more wallets and fresh crazes, bringing about a reversal in the
downward trend7. Unsurprisingly, the P&D groups and influencers have returned with
renewed promises of easy profits from new coins. Guaranteeing huge returns, assuring
their promotions will be the next “ETH Killer”, influencers continue to take advantage of
their followers. Much like in the last market cycle, the new and uninitiated are likely to
lose out to P&D schemes. Worse still, the space remains rife with scams, which are
rampant on newly created decentralised exchange Uniswap8. These are promoted by
P&D groups nonetheless.
Whilst we see the potential for certain new projects to grow, we remain highly sceptical
about the future of the majority of low-cap and microcap tokens. In the short time that
cryptocurrencies have existed, countless projects have exploded onto the scene before
faded into obscurity. Many of them, at best, lack a proper use case, or at worst are
simply scams designed to fleece investors of their savings. This summer has already
seen a variety of exit scams and “rug pulls”, many of which have been promoted by the
groups and influencers outlined here. Investing in such projects is highly speculative and
could arguably be seen as simply gambling. Nevertheless, such risky endeavours are
still encouraged by influencers.

1.3 A MORE MEASURED APPROACH FROM FERA
FERA seeks to counter this trend of reckless P&D promotions and assist new and old
investors alike with mitigating the risk of losing capital whilst optimising sustainable
6 (2018)Crypto’s 80% Plunge is Now Worse than the Dot-Com Crash.www.bloomberg.com
7 Bamborough, B. (2020) Bitcoin in “Early Stages” of a Bull Market Crypto Wallet Data Reveals. www.forbes.com
8 Garg, P. (2020) Defi Exchange Uniswap is Being Swamped With Scam Tokens. www.cryptobriefing.com

returns. Unlike P&D groups and influencers, the FERA team will not resort to
irresponsible conjecture and outlandish price predictions. Instead, we will use data
science, follow market conditions and analyse low – cap projects to identify those with
the potential for real sustainable growth. Using a variety of metrics such as use-case
analysis, tokenomics and development plan we will recommend only the most
promising projects with distinctive utility. Our ultimate aim is to replace gambling with
smarter investing and assist investors with making the most out of the considerable
opportunities that this space offers.

1.4 IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER
We wish to make it that whilst we do provide suggestions on which coins investors
should consider, we emphasise that this is for consideration only. We will never advise
you that you should invest any amount of money in the tokens selected in our reports.
Our purpose is to provide risk analysis, highlight potential scams and indicate which
coins are worthy of further research and consideration for investment. Whether or not
you decide to make such an investment is entirely your choice and FERA will not be held
liable for any losses occurred. Please be weary of the risks in crypto, always do your
own research and only invest what you can afford to lose. We will not issue price
predictions, instruct you to spend any amount of money on any coin, so please don't
ask us for such information.

Invest responsibly,
The FERA Team

2. INTRODUCING THE PARAGON REPORT
2.1 FINDING DIAMONDS IN THE ROUGH
The crypto space is littered with fledgling projects and dozens of new coins are listed
every week. These tokens offer huge potential for rates of return, but naturally, with
higher reward comes higher risk. Many of these will fail to gain traction and prevail in
this highly competitive market9, others are simply scams which will make individuals
lose their entire investment. This can be highly daunting for new investors, time
consuming for experienced traders, and risky even for those who consider themselves
veterans.
FERA is a consultancy service, which specialises in identifying small low-cap and microcap projects that have yet to go mainstream. We search the market for hidden search
with strong fundamentals and a real vision, backed by a competent team who are
working to deliver a truly innovative product. There are many unknown projects and
ideas that have yet to be discovered, allow us to help you with their excavation.

2.2 A STEADYING FORCE IN A TURBULENT MARKET
In addition to highlighting projects with promising potential we will provide price analysis
for those projects so that investors can know what to expect in the short to mediumterm. This will enable traders to make more informed decisions regarding entry and exit
points for new coins. We will not make price predictions but instead guide investors
through the likely direction a token’s price will take. By referring to technical analysis,
historical events, side-by-side comparisons and more we will condense a range of
metrics to make predictions for patterns and trends. This will be vital for newly listed
tokens as the technical analysis tends to be relatively because and they are rarely
covered by influencers and mainstream media outlets. Many ICOs and IEOs follow
similar price movements and FERA has now been collecting extensive data on them for
several years, we look forward to sharing our findings with our investors.

9 The vast majority of coins will disappear entirely to due hacks, loss of interest or because they are scams. See www.deadcoins.com for a full list.

3. INSIDE THE PARAGON REPORT
3.1 THE GEM VALUE GUIDE
To give a brief overview of our verdict which can be conveniently gleaned for essential
information, there will be a short summary of the entire analysis through a 1-5 stars
rating of 5 categories. Each rating will correspond to a real-world gem, we will of course
dedicate most research to those of the highest quality.

1 – Pyrite Rating
The lowest value rating. This will apply to projects which contain a series of red
flags such as lack of website, total absence of product and opaque development
processes. We do not recommend investing in these coins.
2 – Spinel Rating
This rating will be given to coins which, whilst not as likely to be outright scams,
we deem to be unlikely to deliver good ROIs in the long-term. This may be
because of a highly generic product, a dubious team or troubling tokenomics.
We suggest people exercise caution when investing in such coins.
3 – Ruby Rating
This category of gem will be applied to projects, which, though not revolutionary,
can demonstrate sound fundamentals, an interesting concept and a promising
roadmap.
4 – Sapphire Rating
This rating will classify projects which we deem to have numerous favourable
aspects, such as a fully working product, a decent user base, a competent,
engaging team and a relatively low market capitalisation with potential to grow.
5 – Diamond Rating
The highest rating possible. We will award this rating to a select few which
demonstrate outstanding innovation, a working product is currently available or
soon to be released. We highly recommend that you DYOR on these tokens and
consider whether they are the right investment for you.

3.2 ASSESSING A VARIETY OF METRICS
Our service will provide details of our analysis: ranging from a typical technical analysis
(TA) of price movements to more complex in-depth research of the company, the team
behind it and the smart contracts and coding. Below are some key points, which will
be included in The Paragon Report.

Technical Analysis- Arguably the hardest and most unpredictable metric is that of
technical analysis (TA). Whilst such information is easily accessible for larger coins such
as BTC and ETH it is much available for microcap projects given that they contain less
data and receive less coverage. Our TA will complement our selection of HG to allow
you to easily obtain an understanding of which direct research is technical analysis and
price action. Please note that whilst our research can certainly provide a good indication
of how price action will unfold, we will refrain from making specific predictions and
encourage each investor to DYOR and invest at their own discretion.
Fund Management– Effective fund management is a crucial aspect of any new start-up.
This feature will reveal whether new projects have raised the sufficient amount of funds,
where these funds are stored and how they will be utilized by the company, particularly
with regard to investing in their product. A completely transparent fund management
process will be integral to a token’s Gem Value Rating.
Price Action and Market Conditions– Profit making can be easy in a bull-market as traders
tend to invest their gains in many different projects and the rising tide lifts all boats.
FERA will direct all our efforts towards the most interesting low-cap projects whilst
always keeping an eye at the overall market. It is worth noting that it is always important
to also know when it is not a good time to invest. Therefore, if strongly unfavourable
conditions arise, we will notify our investors and implement a much more cautious
approach in The Paragon Report. In extreme cases of bearish indicators, we will pause
the payment service for our plans until more promising conditions appear.
Etherscan Wallets Check– Complete transparency is essential for a long-term success
and how tokens are distributed says a lot about the founders: we will directly contact
them and maintain communications in order to verify the integrity of the team.
Crypto Exchanges Reviews– One of the greatest predictors of price increases can be an
announcement that a coin will be listed on a new (especially major) exchange. It is
important however to consider the actual value that a listing is likely to produce, in terms
of the exchange’s brand recognition, user base and trading volume. Our coverage will
therefore also include exchanges with a series of reviews of their usability and
trustworthiness. Choosing the right exchange is of paramount importance when it

comes to investing and the choice of which exchange to be listed on will also reflect
upon the micro-cap token.
Working Product - Projects that have already delivered or are soon to deliver a real
working product is arguably one of the most important matters to consider when
investing. Our research has indicated that it is also considered to be an area which
investors are keen to be consulted on. We will therefore provide comprehensive
coverage of the working product, it’s originality, utility, evaluate the effectiveness and
promise of the product and consider that in our analysis
Development Time -Activity on Github, the company’s roadmap, privacy level and other
fundamentals will also be taken into account whilst reviewing tokens.

3.3 THE PARAGON PLANS ON OFFER
We initially expected our service to be live from September 1st 2020, but unfortunately
it’s launch has been briefly due to unforeseen circumstances. To compensate investors
for this, and to reward their trust in our project, we will be offering free access to a trial
of The Paragon Essential Plan for everybody to sample our service.
There will be two plans for retail investors, either the Essential Plan or Premier plan with
additional features. Additionally, there will be an Executive Plan designed for businesses
in development. The different plans will be obtained exclusively by purchasing FERA
tokens, of which a fixed dollar value will be needed, so that costs are not affected by
price volatility.

-

The Paragon Essential Plan - 15,000 FERA
Our indispensable report on the most valuable gems will give you all you need
to make smarter investments in crypto. The Paragon Essential plan grants you
access to the entire service without specialised support from our team
assistance. Compiled from three years of research and analysis of the market,
this will include comprehensive coverage of all the relevant information needed
to make informed decisions.

-

The Paragon Premier Plan - 35,000 FERA
With this enhanced plan you will have access to a more detailed analysis and a
personal consulting service along with access to additional features. This will
include:
i.
A personal consultation service with a member of our team via our
chat to discuss your portfolio, entry and exit points for investments
and other strategies.
ii.
A private chatroom with other Premier Plan subscribers in which you
can work together to share information, collaborate on research and
exchange ideas.

-

The Paragon Executive Business Plan (Price TBA)
The Paragon Executive Business Plan will be tailored to start-ups and small
companies ready to enter the crypto space. FERA will be able to provide a
complete review, highlighting strengths and weaknesses of the business,
presenting a fund management strategy in terms of what funds should be raised
and how they should be allocated, and giving advice about how to proceed in the
initial weeks and months of price activity.

4. THE PANOPTICON PLATFORM: A 360° VIEW OF THE
HIDDEN GEM SPACE
4.1 A DECENTRALISED DATABASE
The Paragon Plans will be integrated into our Panopticon Platform, a comprehensive
dApp to display all the essential information needed for smarter investment decisions.
The platform will be accessed by connecting via Metamask wallet, so that you can
conveniently login without the need for a login or password.
Traders will be able to access the platform according to their chosen plan, of which the
premier plan will include more detailed analysis. The platform will display an extensive
list of metrics for each token we have selected, with a total score calculated by
combining these tokens. These will include a rating for the product or service, the
competency of the team and their community engagement and it’s tokenomics.
Furthermore, it will include a risk rating (relative to the risk within the cryptocurrency
market) that will be calculated using a variety of variables. More information about the
platform will be announced in the coming months, as we continue to develop and build
it.
We will initially release a V1 Beta for investors to trial and check the main functionalities
of the service. The FERA complete V2 platform is scheduled to be delivered in Q4 2020
(or Q1 2021 at the latest).

4.2 A DEMOCRATIC VOTING SYSTEM
FERA wants our community to be fully involved in our ecosystem and therefore we will
give Panopticon users the opportunity to cast their votes to select their own gems to
others. Voters will need to hold a certain amount of FERA for a certain amount of days
(to be discussed in the future by the community) in order to vote and tokens with the
highest number of votes will be ranked accordingly. Further details about this will be
revealed as we develop the platform.

5. POWERING THE ECOSYSTEM WITH THE FERA TOKEN
We have decided to issue a token that will follow simple but efficient tokenomics,
making it a true microcap investment, backed by the brand awareness of the project
itself.

5.1 EARNING A PASSIVE INCOME
FERA will give investors to earn our tokens around the clock by staking them with us.
Staking will not be locked so that investors can drop in and out of the process as they
choose. Initially the staking will be carried out in a specialised wallet but later in will be
enabled on the platform. Exact figures have yet to finalised but we will update investors
with the relevant staking revenue percentage and APR once these numbers have been
confirmed.

5.2 THE FERA BUY BACK SCHEME
Revenue in ETH from the Executive Business Plan will be used to improve FERA
tokenomics and value: FERA will rebuy (directly on Uniswap) 50% of the total revenue.
The buyback scheme will be held twice a month, on the 5thand the 25th of each month
in order to prevent spending too much on gas fees or rebuying low quantities of FERA
Token.

5.3 THE FERA BURNING SCHEME
Burning tokens is an important way to maintain price stability and manage tokenomics.
Therefore, revenue in FERA from the Paragon Plan will be partially burned in order to
enhance the deflationary aspect of the token.

5.4 LOCKED LIQUIDITY FOR INVESTORS
In accordance with ensuring there is trust we have decided to lock in Unicrypt. a first
batch of liquidity (12.5% of the pool) for 6 months until 11/02/2021. Please find the
contract using the Etherscan link here.

6. THE TEAM BEHIND FERA
LEONARDO NOCI - Founder and CEO
Leonardo has been studying the market since mid-2016, enabling him to accumulate a
wealth of knowledge surrounding all thing crypto. His vision for FERA is to create a
sustainable and long-lasting business dedicated to crypto enthusiasts who wish to get
the most out of the next market cycle.

MATTEO COMERO - Financial Analyst
After completing his MSc in Economics, his career in Financial Analysis initially began in
fiat businesses but he subsequently developed a passion for research and analysis in
the crypto space.

SABA KARANADZE - Legal Advisor
Traveller and aspiring politician. He drives important changes for the improvement of
operating and organizational efficiency of the legal aspect of the business to ensure
FERA is compliant with the law and properly registered with the necessary regulators.

TOM JARMAN - Marketing Management
Tom graduated from The University of Manchester with a BSc in Biochemistry and
quickly transitioned from academia into the Third Sector where he worked on marketing,
project management and fundraising for several charities in Africa. He first became
interested in crypto in early 2017 and has been researching the market ever since.

COMMUNITY MODERATORS
Eric Nwbughogu
Ivan Pezzini
More team members to be announced in due course.

