Decentralized Autonomous
Energy System

Energo Labs
Abstract
Built for a future DAE (Decentralized Autonomous Energy Community), Energo
is an ecosystem based on decentralized apps. At its core are Qtum and a
decentralized system designed for the measurement, registries, transactions
and settlement of clean energy in local Micro-grids.
This document envisions a peer-to-peer DAE community (Decentralized
Autonomous Energy Community), where the Energo system is embedded with
a cryptocurrency ---TSL, and where owners of this cryptocurrency are entitled to access to the distributed energy storage system.
Energo is designed for a new future of energy production and consumption. It
connects energy producers of varying capacities and energy consumers of
diverse needs. Clean energy is consumed ﬁrst within the community; energy
eﬃciency and reliability are increased; intermediaries of energy trading are
eliminated; energy producers and retailers experience proﬁt boosts; energy
users see their cost slashed. With such a vision in mind, Energo is to channel
the physical construction, informational structure and value system of the
future smart grids and help bring about a truly decentralized autonomous
energy community.
Energo also oﬀers a solution to machine-to-machine energy demand. Electric vehicles of tomorrow will apply its digital ID and digital wallet on the block
chain to pay for the electricity it receives at any given charging station. Both
the charging and payment process can be done unattended. The eﬃciency of
clean energy supply and consumption in any given community can also be
maximized.
Energo ICO will start at 18:00 (+8:00), 25th July 2017 till the end of 20:00
(+8:00), 15th Aug 2017, total 21 days with 3 phases designed. The ICO will be
eneded immediately whenever the target (510,000,000 TSL is all sold out) is
achieved witnthin the ICO period.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Backdrop
The electric power industry is undergoing profound changes as we move from a
centralized generation system to a decentralized, smaller-scale production
model. If such a trend continues, every household will have a power-generating
facility(ie. PV or CHP) installed in the near future. Those facilities will generate
enough electricity to meet household demands and supply local communities
with the surplus. Energy trading may thus be prompted with such a capacity
enjoyed by a large number of households. Imagine a future where every household has installed PV and enjoyed a power surplus which can be supplied to
other users. When electricity is traded within the local community, costs of
distributing power, building transmission lines, and expanding generation
capacity will be signiﬁcantly decreased.
What’s more, such a future would fundamentally transform the renewable
energy landscape, where resources and capacities are unevenly distributed.
Power surplus will be consumed within the local community ﬁrst, while being
complementary to the original power source.
The renewable energy sector relies heavily on subsidies from pro-clean-energy
governments, but these subsides are dwindling, with Germany already pulling
out its subsidy. Prosumers' proﬁts are slashed. They sell at low prices to utility
companies, which in turn sell to customers at a marked up price, reaping most
of the proﬁts. Against such a backdrop, a new solution, independent of subsidies and guided by rules of the free market, is much needed. An electricity
market, where free trading happens, beneﬁts all stake holders [1]. Such a
market is a double-edged sword in itself though, challenging and presenting
new opportunities to traditional power grids, businesses and operations [2]. Our
vision for a future where solar and wind power production and electric vehicles
consumption are the norm, is to ﬁnd better solutions to manage a massive
decentralized future energy grid which can in times be unreliable. Such a vision
allows participants to maximize the use of electricity generated locally and
delivers evident beneﬁts: cutting power distribution cost and energy loss; managing local power grid better; eventually leading to decentralized autonomous

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
energy communities that sit at the hearts of future smart grids and smart cities.
This future also demonstrates how the development of market economy and civic
society can go hand in hand. When citizens take the initiative to promote renewable energy and display innovation in the process, the nation succeeds in its
supply-end reform in the energy sector and develops renewable energy equipment
and storage.
Through the Energo network, or DAE community, such a vision comes to life. The
network encompasses interconnected small-scale grids, which operate in a larger
region. Advanced information technologies, combined with new energy technology,
such as blockchain, IOT, AI, electric vehicles, energy storage technologies, micro
grids, integrate real-time ﬂow of power, information and value transfer among
producers and consumers in a complex decentralized system where energy is
traded and information is managed.

[1]S. Karnouskos, “Demand side management via prosumer interactions in a smart city energy marketplace,” in IEEE International Conference on Innovative Smart Grid Technologies (ISGT
2011), Manchester, UK, Dec. 5–7 2011.
[2]X. Yu, C. Cecati, T. Dillon, and M. Simo “es, “The new frontier of smart grids,” Industrial Electronics Magazine, IEEE, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 49 –63, sept. 2011.
[3]INTRODUCTION TO MICROGRIDS, https://www.securicon.com/sites/default/ﬁles/Introduction%20to%20Microgrids%20-%20Securicon%20-%202013_1.pdf

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Why Qtum?
Quantum Blockchain is the embodiment of an internet-based value transfer
agreement and a decentralized app development platform. It serves to bridge
the bitcoin and Ethereum ecosystem and channel the blockchain world to the
physical world.
Qtum system diﬀers from smart contract platforms underpinned by POW, a
consensus protocol constrained by resources and hardware and thus unlikely
to scale up. Consensus mechanism is innately ﬂawed due to a lack of ﬂexibility, which can be problematic because public blockchain and consortium blockchain are accessed by diﬀerent entities and thus exert diﬀerent requirements
on consensus. Whereas Qtum system, with both Qutum public blockchain and
Qutum consortium blockchain, is more ﬂexible: Qutum public blockchain, given
its degree of decentralization, low threshold for participation, secure environment and reliability, adopts the POS-based IPOS. Qutum consortium blockchain, restricted by pre-selected nodes, participated by known counterparties
and subject to diﬀerent consideration for consensus, adopts a blended mechanism of Proof of Time and Raft agreement to optimize computing power in
any given trusted network.
Another ﬂaw of current blockchain systems is that they are rather locked
down. Most of the smart contracts have their triggering events from within the
blockchain system itself instead of the outside world. There’s a lack of interaction with the physical world. With Qtum system, however, things are diﬀerent. Oracle and Data Feed featured in the system enable data in the physical
world to be triggering events, breaking the closed loop of smart contracts.
Energo is a consortium blockchain with myriads of the future distributed
energy storage equipment as its full nodes. Energo consortium blockchain,
developed in the Qtum system, can better guarantee the security, stability, and
partial decentralization of the entire DAE ecosystem. It boasts superb capacity
to handle the massive energy information ﬂow and value transfer. With commitment to DAE development, Energo is focused on operations, applying
blockchain technology ﬁrst to the energy sector.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Token
Energo energy asset-WATT

Energo ecosystem asset- TSL

WATT is a blockchain-based digital asset. Its

TSL (Tesla) represents its owner’s access to

value is backed by energy: each WATT token

power in distributed energy storage equipment.

represents 1KWh of actual energy stored in micro

Future prosumers and electricity users must own

grids or distributed energy storage equipment.

TSL in order to store electricity in energy storage

Energo system monitors real-time energy con-

equipment.

sumption through smart meters, generates WATT

To guarantee the eﬃcient and fair use of public

tokens through smart contracts and issues them

resources, a commission fee on the user-stored

to users with privately owned clean energy gen-

energy in the distributed energy storage equip-

erators.

ment is charged every 15 minutes.

With real-time energy consumption monitoring,

80% of the proceeds go to the storage equip-

by either smart meters or charging stations

ment owners. That means energy suppliers’

compatible with Energo, the system can also

proceeds correspond to the percentage of stored

generate private key signature script and transfer

energy he contributes to the grid.

WATT token to the designated burning address.

10% goes to the purpose of educating the
market and new users, for instance,TSLs of small
denomination are given for free to ﬁrst-time
users to facilitate their experience.
Another 10% goes to Energo network. Energo
issues 1,000,000,000 TSLs in total. The number
of the tokens remains constant. There will be no
more issuance in the future.
10%

10%

Energo education
of the
market and
new users

©2017 Energo Labs

80%
storage equipment owners

Energo Labs
Decentralized Energy Exchanges
Micro grid
Before peer-to-peer energy trading becomes a reality, we need to do a
small operation on current electric power system and introduce into it a new
grid structure. That’s how micro grid comes to the picture. Micro gird is a
highly autonomous and ﬂexible energy network, able to either work in parallel with national grid or in isolation. It also integrates the distributed energy
generated in a given community, signiﬁcantly promotes energy utilization
and oﬀers excellent reliability.
At its core is an energy storage system, which, through voltage and band
management, achieves stable and quality power supply, renewable energy
generation and management. The storage system facilitates peer-to-peer
energy transfer (i.e. consumers can purchase stored energy contributed by
prosumers). Combining IOT facilities that meet measurement requirements
and technology standards of multiple countries for measurement and communication, the system has what it takes to bring about a decentralized
autonomous energy community.
Energo is designed to facilitate renewable energy consumption, maximizing
the trading of produced and stored energy and utilization of energy storage
system. Therefore, unlike traditional micro grids, it prioritizes the use of
renewable energy in the local community, with traditional grids playing a
complementary role supplying the whole region with its backup energy
storage.

FUTURE OF MICROGRIDS：https://www.marsdd.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/Future-of-Microgrids-CI.pdf
Basic components in microgrids：https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microgrid#Basic_components_in_microgrids

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Decentralized Energy Exchanges
Trading Platform
The foundation stone of any decentralized energy system is the capability of the diﬀerent peers within
the network to freely exchange the energy they produce and consume. This process of settlement is
traditionally deﬁned as a trading. There are diﬀerent kinds of trading mechanisms being used worldwide
for diﬀerent kind of business, products and services. One of the key points of a trading mechanism is
the pricing mechanism.
A pricing mechanism deﬁnes the principles and processes for which products and services prices are
negotiated between the price asked buyers (commonly referenced as “ask” price) and the price bided
by sellers (commonly referenced as “bid” price). Three of the most common ones are: auction, reverse
auction and stock-markets mechanisms.
The auction pricing mechanism is commonly used by online platforms such as eBay and oﬄine for art
selling. Sellers setup a minimum price for which they are willing to sell their product or service and
buyers try to outbid each other to win the auction. The buyer willing to pay the highest price for the
auctioned item within the auctioning time will proceed to acquire the item and pay the bidding price to
the seller. If no bids are made no transactions will be made. Auctions are a great mechanism to maximize the price a seller can obtain for a speciﬁc product or service and is good for products or services
with many buyers but few sellers.
The reverse-auction pricing mechanism is commonly used by governments and companies to outsource
services. In a reverse-auction, the buyer deﬁnes a maximum bidding price and deﬁnes the product or
service it requires. Sellers interested to win the contract will oﬀer their product or service at a given ask
price. Once all interested sellers provide their asking prices, the contract will be rewarded to the seller
with the minimum asking price that fulﬁlls the contract requirements. This is a great mechanism to
minimize the price a buyer is expected to pay and is good for products or services with many sellers
but few buyers.
The Stock Market pricing mechanism is commonly used by world-wide stock markets and currency
exchanges and other kinds of commodities. Sellers and Buyers are expected to freely publish the
amount they are willing to sell at which asking price meanwhile buyers are expected to freely publish
the amount they are willing to buy at which bidding price. Following a ﬁrst in ﬁrst served policy, buyers

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
with bids higher than the minimum asking price will be able to acquire the commodity from sellers. This
pricing mechanism doesn’t maximize neither minimize the deal price but it is a very good mechanism
for markets with many sellers and many buyers.

For a peer to peer energy trading platform we expect many buyers and many sellers’ environment, this
means that from pricing mechanism point of view the most suitable pricing mechanism is likely to follow
the example setup by the Stock Market, but with some speciﬁc modiﬁcations to align with our speciﬁc
needs.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Decentralized Energy Exchanges
Energo Pricing
Going into more detail on our selected pricing mechanism, a typical step for Stock Markets is to create
the order book table.

Figure 1. Order Book Example
Every order represents an acceptable price for each unit of quantity in an order. Common situation for
an order book includes a “Bid-Ask Spread” area that is the price margin between the highest bid and
the lower ask price. In this scenario, we will deﬁne the buying-price as the lowest ask price, since
that’s the price at which I currently can buy anything, and selling-price will be deﬁned as highest bid
price, as that’s the most expensive price I can currently sell.
In case of our energy market we face a special situation at which energy we may want to sell may not
have been created yet. This will lead into a situation where we have some overlapping between sell and
buy orders.

Figure 2. Energo Platform Order Book Example

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
In this case, we have some orders with asking price lower than the highest bidding price, however, the
people that created those orders don’t have enough energy balance to execute. In this case, if user
wants to buy energy right away, they will need to match the price of the ﬁrst seller with currently available energy however, we will still deﬁne market prices per the order book, regardless of energy being
available or not.
Another specify of our market is energy storage. Currently energy storage isn’t being manufactured at
a cheap-enough price to be considered a commodity. Current energy storage prices can range
between 5500$ for a 14KWh Powerwall supplied by Tesla ~400$ / KWh capacity to ~200$/KWh for
utility-scale battery capacity. On top of that, not only battery creates pressure from pricing point of
view but also from physical location point of view. Per BYD own website, 800KWh is the maximum
capacity that can be ﬁtted within a 40ft container with an area size of approximately 30 sqm.

Figure 3. Price and Area requirements for diﬀerent micro-grid populations.

[1] Battery size has been calculated with the expectation of being able to store 150% of the total
average user energy balance.
[2] We use 200$ as the KWh capacity price. Installation costs, land costs and other secondary
costs have been ignored.

On Figure 3, we can compare the total cost for diﬀerent micro-grid sizes per the average energy being
stored by every household. Using the 200$ / KWh price and with required capacity as 50% higher than
the average balance hold by our users, the per user average stored KWh capacity goes at around
300$. This places two main priorities for us to be able to sustain the system.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
First, we need to ensure that we have mechanisms to minimize the battery usage per user to avoid
battery costs from sky-rocketing and consequently we will limit the maximum amount a user can store.
To calculate the desired maximum balance (Bmax) per a target energy storage cost per user (Cu), and
assuming users average balance to be around half the maximum, we can deﬁne the equation as:

Equation 1. Calculating Maximum Balance per a target cost per user.
Second, we need to ensure that users have a mechanism that allows them to sell energy automatically
to avoid loss of proﬁt. To allow users to automatically sell energy, we will use a Zero Intelligence (ZI)
agent [2]. In our case, we will use a ZI for which a user can only deﬁne the target purchase and selling
price and our platform will automatically buy and sell once a given balance threshold is reached and no
other buy or sell order exists.
Because we have a maximum amount of energy a user can hold as balance, we may incur into a situation in which users have purchase orders that are issued but can’t be executed until the user’s balance
decreases.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Software Implementation
For our software implementation, we need to diﬀerentiate three diﬀerent actors:
-Users or Agents: External actors, can operate over users’ order book
-Business Logic Units: Execute, calculate or hold data regarding users’ balance, orders or transaction
history
-Smart Meter: Can report energy usage and energy creation and consequently increment and decrement balances.

Figure 4. Market Software Implementation diagram.
On our platform, we will use the Qtum blockchain as a central data source to record and account
users’ energy transactions. We will consider a transaction the following actions:
-Energy being added or removed because of smart meter account
-Currency being added or removed because of users’ actions
-Currency being transferred between users as energy payments
-Energy being transferred between users
We will also use a smart contract within Qtum to write and handle the diﬀerent parts of our business
logic.
[1] BYD Utility Scale energy storage. Available at: http://www.byd.com/usa/energy/utility-ess/
[2] D. K. Gode and S. Sunder, “Allocative eﬃciency of markets with zero intelligence (ZI) traders: market as a partial substitute for individual rationality,” Journal of Political Economy, vol. 101,
no. 1, pp. 119–137,

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Charging Service for New Energy Vehicles
We believe the future of electricity trading is happening not just between
people, but also between machines: between electric vehicles and charging
stations; robots and chargers, to name just a few.

Take new energy vehicles and charging stations, which is a typical case of
energy trading. We give new energy vehicles and charging stations unique and
human-like digital ID on blockchains. Since charging stations are connected to
the distributed energy storage equipment in the micro grids, new energy
vehicles, upon accessing charging stations in DAE communities, can fulﬁll the
purchase in a given energy exchange and the payment to the charging station
for the energy asset (using non-ﬁat currency), the whole process done unattended.Such a future enhances utilization of clean energy generated in communities, increases supply and makes energy source traceable, thus making
new energy vehicles even cleaner. Arbitrary pricing and unfriendly payment
methods will become yesterday’s story. The future, through Energo’s new
energy vehicles charging service, sees a standard electricity price and payment
method within any given community. The only diﬀerence is the service fee
charged by diﬀerent charging stations.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Energo Ecosystem
Energy trade and management APP
The Energo network enables users of diﬀerent regions and micro girds to trade or share energy on
certain APPs (Android/IOS). It’s also capable of collecting data and running analysis on both production
and consumption end (Q1, 2017 has already delivered that.). Going into the future, it will serve as smart
home apps, controlling energy use through AI and oﬀering meticulous energy management (This feature
is expected to be launched in Q2, 2018).

Wallet
Energo wallet is an APP managing users’ token asset. Users can create new accounts, transfer TSL
and future tokens in the OTUM ecosystem, import or export private keys, and view the status and
trading history of TSL.

Smart meters and charging stations
Energo and its partners supply smart meters and charging stations that meet the measurement
requirements and technology standards of the country installing those facilities. To access Energo
network and DAE community, prosumers and traditional electricity users will have to install smart
meters that can run in Energo environment. Charging stations for new energy vehicles will be connected to the Energo network and be upgraded to be compatible with it.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Development Process
Energolabs was found in Octorber 2016, we have been prepared for the blockchain-related research and
design as early as august and has obtained the investment of Mr.Wang Li Jie and Mr.Zhang Jun, two
famous angle investors who had invested in Antshares and Metaverse. After that we got the strategic
investment from Energy Blockchain Laboratory and Shougang Fund.
As a early practitioner of energy blockchain, Energolabs also appeared in Event Horizon in Vienna
(February 2017) and the Clean Tech 2017 hold by ASIA DEVELOPMENT BANK in Manila(June) as guest
speaker with our Startup project, promoting the DAE community based on the blockchain, which was
favoured by government and energy company in each country.
In the ﬁrst quarter of 2017, we have completed the blockchain Version ALPHA and the development of
Energy Exchange in Android platform. The development of intelligent electric meter prototype was
ﬁnished and it has been sent to Hanergy Global R&D centre for testing and adjusting in a real microgrid
environment.
In the early days, we built the blockchain by ourselves and spent a lot of energy on the development of
the chain itself so the chain is not inﬂuential enough, which might restrain the business advancement and
ecological construction, therefore, we decide to transfer the developing basement to Qtum and reset the
development process.

2017
7

2017
12

2018
5

Transferred to based on Qtum
Smart contract development
EVE product

2017
4
ENERGO main chain
completed

EV Changing Service on the line
Completion of Australia, Southeast Asia 20MW community
transformation
Began to issue dividends to the users who hold and use TSL in
Energo network
Energo oﬃcial exchange on the line (AUD, MYR, SGD, THB, PHP)

2017
9

2018
4

Completed Australia, Southeast Asia
accumulated 100MW community
transformation
Into the Chinese market

2018
12

EVE prototype
development completed
Test and tuning the
microgrid network

P2P energy peer - to peer transactions
Platform on the line
EVE generation machine
market

©2017 Energo Labs

IIntegrated smart home control
as well Energy saving management
function

Energo network covers
Australia,Southeast Asia four
countries, accumulated
500 MW DAE community

Energo Labs
Details on Crowd Funding
Timetable and objectives of ICO
The launch of Energo network and the creation of tokens are based on the smart contract running in
Qtum. Energo’s ICO is scheduled to last 21 days, starting at 18:00 on July 25th and ending at 20:00 on
August 15th. Within this timeframe, the ICO ends as the objective is met. Upon the completion of ICO,
for the purpose of external audit on funds raised during the ICO period, multi-signature addresses,
along with information on the participation of investors will be publicized. One week after the completion of ICO, TSL tokens will be allocated to individual accounts according to their contribution to the
ICO.

The objective of this ICO is to raise 510,000,000 TSL. There will be no second crowd funding.

Booking Token (ERC20)
We’ve created ERC20 tokens (TSL) based on Ethereum, which is the token issued for ICO before Qtum
main net is ready. Investors can, after the ICO, to exchange their TSL on Ethereum to TSL on Qtum
( 1 : 1 ) via Energo Wallet, and then TSL on Ethereum will be destroied.

Note: The dates in the timetable are not ﬁxed. Energo team reserves the right to alter those dates.
Alteration of dates will be posted on Energo’s oﬃcial website.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
The Allocation of TSL
Energo will issue 1,000,000,000 TSL tokens. The number remains static. There will be no more issuance
in the future.

10% TEAM
10% VC INVESTORS
29% FOUNDATION
51% ICON INVESTORS

51% of the TSL will be sold and enter the market through ICO.Should circumstances require fewer
tokens, the spare would sell to corporate investors by private placement.

29% of the TSL will be locked up in Energo Foundation after the completion of crowd funding. The fund
will be allocated to future partners for the purpose of promoting and scaling up projects. The fund will
also be used in small amounts at early stage of the business to facilitate ﬁrst-time-user experience.

10% of the DAEC will go to early-stage PE investors. The option cycle will be 24 months. The option
can be exercised once every 6 months. This means early-stage PE investors can’t sell their holdings
right after the ICO, so that the market won’t experience major ﬂuctuation.

Another 10% will go to the founding team and the R&D team as long-term R&D fund and incentives.
Immediate selling is not allowed either, ensuring the founders’ interests are in line with long-term development goals.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Token Sale and Promotion System
Participants can join the ICO via exclusive ICO platforms to contribute and support Energo network’s
development. Besides, the earlier phase participants can get better discount.
Supported currency :
Energo Labs ICO accepts Qtum and BTC.
Incentive policy:

Early bird

Phase 1

Phase 2

7.25
18:00~19:59

7.25 20:00~
8.1 19:59

8.1 20:00~
8.15 20:00

1 BTC

120,000 TSL

115,000 TSL

110,000 TSL

1 QTUM

400 TSL

340 TSL

320 TSL

TSL

How to get involved?
You can visit any of the exclusive ICO platforms listed below to participate in this ICO:

icoage.com

©2017 Energo Labs

allcoin.com

bitouzi.com

tokencapital.io

Energo Labs
Token Sale and Promotion System
Disclaimer

Cryptocurrency is in its early stage of development. Investing in crytocurrency entails a certain
degree of risks.

Participation in this ICO is not advised unless you are fully informed of Energo’s development
roadmap and risks in the blockchain industry.

Energo Foundation is a non-proﬁt organization. System users obtain corresponding Energo
network users rights. Crowd funding participants should be aware that in the premises of
the law, Energo does not, make any explicit or implicit guarantee.

Energo’s gains is purchase according to “current status”.

It should be noted that Energo Foundation is responsible for community operation and capital
allocation. It dose not claim ownership over the capital. Your participation in Energo’s ICO
indicates your conﬁrmation, complete understanding and acknowledgement of every item
in this white paper.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Foundation
The Encrypted currency raised by Energo should be kept, spent or invested in a transparent, auditable
and eﬃcient manner. Capital raised in post-ICO period will be in the safe custody of the Foundation.
Every payment made will require all the signatures of the Foundation members.

Energo Foundation will receive annual auditing. RHTLAW , one of the Big Four Accounting ﬁrms, will
evaluate the Foundation’s operation and assess potential risks. Personnel of the Foundation’s permanent departments will be subject to annual evaluation on performances including daily operation and
coordination of the communities, as well as management of the Foundation.

Energo Foundation will set up a team of ﬁve trustworthy individuals (two members representing Energo
founders, the third member from Energo’s early-stage investors, the fourth member partner of a
top-notch accounting ﬁrm，the other member an expert in the energy industry.)

The Foundation keeps 29% of the TSL. These tokens will be locked up in a smart contract for future
spending on project scale-up or small incentives to new users in the DAE community. Going into the
future, Energo will allocate more tokens to new contributors or partners and continue to give out
bonuses in small amounts to new users to incentivize and educate them.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs

has an international team of Chinese, Spanish, Indians and Taiwanese.

Key Members
Qu Lei
Dropping out of Tongji University in his freshman year, Qu started his own
business in the ﬁnancial industry. He worked on outsourced projects for
ﬁnancial institutions like Sumitomo Mitsui, China UnionPay, Chongqing Rural
Commercial Bank and the like. Early as 2014, he started working on blockchain-based apps, developing Ripple-based apps and cross-border Bitcoin
transaction apps. In early 2016, Qu Lei began to focus his work on energy
blockchain. The DAE concept is his brainchild.
Yang Kaikai
Yang worked for Tecent WeStart (Yang Pu), and United Technologies R & D
Center, Asia Paciﬁc, Shanghai and has years of overseas working experience; Yang is also an early Bitcoin investor, a jazz drummer, an improvising
spirit.

JOSE DUQUE
Jose Duque graduated from Polytechnic University of Catalonia with a
Master Degree in telecommunications. He is a specialist in cryptography,
skilled in algorithm and contract design. Duque worked for Sandbox and
GBI, and is the active member of Bigchaindb community.

Chen Linren
Chen graduated from Taiwan Ming Chuan University, worked for Nokia,
Foxconn, and managed, contributed to plenty of global products, programs

SERGI SANTOS
Graduating from Polytechnic University of Catalonia with a Master’s Degree
in computer science, Sergi Santos worked for FICOSA S.A. and is a specialist in distributed system and distributed database.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Consultants

Xu Xiaolong
QTUM Chief Engineer

Simon Dixon
Investment banker
Bitcoin angel investor

Cao Yin
Co-founder of Energy
Blockchain Laboratory

Wang Lijie
PreAngel Fund

Liao Yu
CEO of Tellhow

Ken Ching (Mentor)
Director of PwC Global
Financial Services Innovation Center, Asia Paciﬁc.

©2017 Energo Labs

Energo Labs
Partners

For more information on Energo projects, please visit
our oﬃcial website: www.energolabs.com

©2017 Energo Labs

