Aditus
Luxury Access Platform for Crypto-Affluents

White Paper
Originally drafted: 1 July 2017
Updated 1 June 2019

1

Table of Contents
1.

Growing numbers of crypto-affluents neglected by the luxury industry ........................................................................................3

2.

Crypto-affluents desire and deserve the luxury lifestyle – this is a missed trillion dollar opportunity .............................4

3.

Introducing Aditus - The first luxury lifestyle access platform serving crypto-affluents globally ........................................4

4.

Aditus Value Proposition for Users ....................................................................................................................................................................6

5.

Aditus Value Proposition for Luxury Merchants ..........................................................................................................................................9

6.

Business Model ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 10

7.

Team ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 11

8.

The Aditus Token .................................................................................................................................................................................................... 15

9.

Roll-Out Road Map ................................................................................................................................................................................................. 16

10.

Conclusion .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 21

11.

Important Information ......................................................................................................................................................................................... 22

This White Paper in current form is being circulated by Aditus Pte. Ltd. (“Aditus”) for general
information only on the Aditus platform as presently conceived, and is subject to review and
revision by the directors of Aditus, the board of advisors and/or legal advisors of Aditus. It is fully
subject to the terms and conditions contained in Section 12 of this White Paper entitled “Important
Information”. It is not to be treated as investment or financial advice.
Please do not replicate or distribute any part of this White Paper without this disclaimer in
accompaniment. The information set forth below may not be exhaustive and no part of this
White Paper is intended to create legal relations between a recipient of this White Paper or to be
legally binding or enforceable by such recipient against Aditus. An updated version of this White
Paper may be published on a date to be determined and announced by Aditus in due course.

2

1.

Growing numbers of crypto-affluents neglected by the luxury
industry

The value of bitcoin, the first and most well-known crypto-currency, has increased significantly.
Some alt-coins have also seen tremendous growth over the last 2 years – indeed no other
category of asset has offered such upside in the last decade.
This along with the token sale (ICO) boom and the rich 24-7 trading opportunities in 2016 and
2017 have created an entirely new community of affluent individuals – the “crypto-affluents”.
The founders of Aditus are veteran entrepreneurs in luxury and tech, and we have noticed
increasing numbers of such crypto-affluents at our luxury events. (We own 3 large scale yacht
shows in Asia, and organise events for affluent users monthly). In our discussions with them, we
discovered that while many crypto-affluents desire services offered by luxury merchants, they
still lack access to it, and feel excluded.
At the same time, luxury merchants (our long time partners & clients) similarly have no way of
reaching out to crypto-affluents, despite going through a period of slowing growth and eager for
new revenue growth.
This disconnect is driven by the following factors:
•

Few luxury merchants accept crypto-currencies – lack of payment gateway
implementation

•

Crypto-users are more privacy-conscious than your average user, while luxury
merchants need more targeting data than your average marketer to market their
goods

•

Luxury lifestyle merchants simply do not know how to reach crypto-affluents

The above reasons are true not just of luxury merchants, but generally as well. Cryptoadoption en-masse is still some time away.
Yet, at the beginning stages of our project in 2017, our team had an hypothesis that cryptoadoption will likely first occur at the two opposing ends of the wealth spectrum, the
unbanked poor and the crypto-affluent.
This hypothesis has been tested and proven through our operations since January 2018, as
we have processed numerous transactions from crypto affluents among the luxury
merchants we have signed.
Challenges however remain. Luxury merchants are among the most traditional of companies,
and are used to traditional modes of marketing. They simply have no way to easily reach out to
crypto-affluents. This is especially so as we have observed that the crypto-currency / blockchain
community can be as insular as the luxury industry.
Luxury merchants have always required more targeted marketing due to the niche nature of their
products and the need for the right brand positioning. That higher level of targeting is currently
obtained through channels that extensively track user’s preferences and spending habits.

3

As an example, the Amex Centurion card and other premium credit cards are how many luxury
merchants reach out to fiat-millionaires. The data tracking of fiat millionaires in traditional banking
systems allow luxury merchants to target and identify the right audience for their products.
Short of crypto-affluents converting all their crypto-assets into fiat currencies, subjecting
themselves to traditional banking systems and its perennial tracking1, what we have is a doublesided access problem, in which luxury merchants similarly cannot reach crypto-affluents.

2.

Crypto-affluents desire and deserve the luxury lifestyle – this is a
missed trillion dollar opportunity

The luxury lifestyle business is a trillion-dollar, high margin business encompassing many
product categories.
A few examples of sub-industries that constitute the luxury lifestyle:

Global Premium
Travel
US$ 1,154 billion

Luxury Goods

Art

Yacht Charters

>US$ 300 billion

>US$ 35 billion

>US$ 878 million

With slowing growth for almost all luxury lifestyle categories, serving the new crypto-affluents is a
golden opportunity for all luxury merchants.
With new money pouring into crypto-investment and new crypto-wealth being created everyday,
there is a similar golden opportunity for the first platform that can link luxury merchants with
crypto-affluents.
Aditus is building that market-first platform.

3.
Introducing Aditus - The first luxury lifestyle access platform serving
crypto-affluents globally
Aditus means access in Latin.
1
In our conversations with many crypto-affluents, converting a significant amount of one’s crypto-holdings to fiat is
either offensive from an ideological standpoint, or financially totally self-defeating given the growth still to come in cryptocurrency values.

4

We will create this first-ever access through a platform that uniquely bridges the needs of both
crypto-affluents and luxury merchants.
Drawing on decades of experience in the luxury industry of its founders and advisors, Aditus
creates a wholly new platform that is decentralized, and integrates encryption, smart
contracts and payment gateways that:
• Empowers crypto-users to enjoy access to a rich offering of luxury products and
services in complete privacy
• Enables luxury merchants to target market customers, yet still without infringing on
user’s privacy
• Enables luxury merchants to process payments in crypto currency
• Enables crypto-users to make purchases and to be rewarded in crypto-currencies
The following principles guide the construction of the Aditus platform:
•
•

Users maintain full control of their own data
No user data is transferred or shared without the User’s express authorization

Aditus also offers paid membership programs in which users enjoy a whole package of luxury
rewards like concierge services and access to the most exclusive products / services /
establishments in the world. Think the equivalent of a premium credit card rewards program for
crypto-users.

Diagram: A selection of industries Aditus covers

To ensure the best-in-class technology, Aditus is in partnership with some of the most
prominent blockchain companies in the world. Roll-out initiatives are also planned with these
companies.
Last but not least, Aditus also organizes frequent physical events, meant to increase interactions
between fiat affluents and the crypto-space, between crypto-affluents and lifestyle providers, as
well as between fiat affluents and crypto-affluents themselves.
Through the Aditus app, the most exclusive experiences, events, establishments, products and
services globally are all accessible to crypto-affluents, right through their mobile phones.

5

3.1

Aditus Platform Components

The Aditus platform consists of three main components

Aditus Pay

•
•
•
•

Aditus Access

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

ADI Token

4.

•
•

Payment gateway serving high end merchants to serve cryptoaffluents.
Merchants get access to our payment concierge service and
trading desk to convert crypto payments to fiat.
This was beta-launched in January 2018, and is in full
operations since June 2018.
Signed 14 luxury merchants in active operations.

A secure mobile app, with a crypto-currency wallet empowering
mobile purchases
The primary interface between users and Aditus
Serves 4 functions
store and encrypt personal and preferences data on user’s
personal device – this data is used for private matching with
Merchant’s targeting requirements
display Smart Invitations from luxury merchants that match User’s
preferences
facilitate transactions via the Aditus Wallet
display the membership status and digital VIP card at participating
establishments
User data is encrypted and stored on the phone, and never leaves
the phone unless specifically authorized by the user, ensuring
privacy.
The Aditus mobile wallet is a wallet supporting multiple cryptocurrencies
Services in the app are initially focused on the premium travel
market.
Rewards in ADI tokens are automatically given upon purchases
made through the digital wallet
Users can also use their ADI tokens for discounted service fees
in the app
The Aditus Access app will be launched in October 2019 at the
Penang RendezVous Yacht Show.

An ERC 20 token (to be converted to Binance Chain token)
Serves the following functions:
1. Discounted Service Fees on Aditus Platform
2. “Cash-back” on Purchase Price
3. Access to Aditus programs and services (through staking or
spending)
4. A possible transaction currency at Aditus luxury merchants

Aditus Value Proposition for Users

Crypto-Users access the luxury lifestyle through 2 levels of Aditus membership

6

1)

Ordinary Membership (Free)

2)

VIP Membership (Paid)

Aditus Ordinary Membership:

Access to the world of luxury through Smart Invitations TM + Cash-back rewards on transactions
•
•
•
•
•
•

Simply downloading the Aditus app and inputting your preference data will
activate the Aditus Ordinary Membership
Members receive Smart Invitations TM by luxury merchants that match their
preference data
Members receive rewards in ADITUS Tokens for performing Desired User
Actions (specified in the Smart Invitations)
If members use the Aditus wallet and ADITUS Tokens to transact at our
merchants, they also receive cash-back or “in-kind” rewards
Merchant categories include member’s clubs, restaurants, travel, wine, art,
villas, yachts, private jets, classic cars, watches, shopping and even token
offerings etc.
Ultimate User Privacy: Users control all of their data, and user data never
leaves the phone unless specifically authorized by the user.

•
•

A paid membership program reserved for the most active Aditus users2
Available at 3 different levels: Gold, Platinum, Diamond, with 3 different
membership fees
•
All the benefits of Ordinary Membership, and
v Invitations to exclusive events with luxury brands
v Invitations to exclusive events organized by the Aditus Foundation
(including events such as ICO pitches)
v 24-7 Service Concierge
v Access to clubs, restaurants, lounges
v Exclusive deals with high-end travel planners offering custom design
itineraries at exotic, hard to get destinations
v Invitations to iconic events eg classic car concours, film festivals, beach
parties, themed cruises eCash-back Rewards at Luxury Boutiques
v Exclusive benefits with yacht charter companies
v Exclusive benefits with private jet charter companies
v Exclusive visits of wine cellars in Europe / the US
v Exclusive access to Gallery and New Exhibition vernissages
v Private invitation to new yacht launches
v Privileged access to Art and Collectible auctions
v Privileged access to high-end property and vineyard auctions
v Exclusive invitation to Token launches (ITSs)
v Private Purchase and Sale Advisor (art, properties, yachts)
v And many more
•
•

4.1

This is the rewards program of the crypto-world, akin to those offered by
under top tier credit cards like Amex Centurion.
The Aditus team is experienced in creating luxury rewards programs for
banks and credit card companies, and is well-connected with many of the
other companies working in the background creating these exclusive
programs.

Secure Multi-Cryptocurrency Wallet + Seamless Payment At
Merchants

2
User activity on Aditus is not tracked in a centralized manner, but rather activated through decentralized smart
contracts

7

A core service offering of the Aditus platform is a secure multi-crypto currency wallet within the
Aditus Access app, as well as the roll-out of crypto-payment gateways at luxury merchants.

Aditus Access
Being a multi-currency wallet, the user can choose different crypto-currencies such as Bitcoin,
Litecoin and Ethereum to pay for the products / services offered by an Aditus Alliance merchant.
However, Aditus offers cash-back (more accurately ‘token-back’) and other “in-kind” incentives
(eg free bottle of champagne in your beach villa reserved through Aditus) for using the ADITUS
Token as the payment currency.
Because of the Aditus’ team’s unique strengths in user acquisition among fiat millionaires, it is
likely that the Aditus crypto-currency wallet will be the first mobile crypto-currency wallet
downloaded and used by many fiat millionaires. (See Pt 10 ‘Roll-Out Plan’)
Payment Gateways
Essential to the Aditus platform is rolling-out of payment gateways at our merchants. Integrating
APIs from exchanges and liquidity providers, we will enable luxury merchants to be paid in the
currency of their choice. In so doing, we will initiate luxury merchants into the crypto-age.

4.4

Maximum Privacy Protection

Luxury marketers require more targeting data than the average marketer to run effective
campaigns. Specifically, the ideal luxury marketing campaign needs 3 categories of targeting
data:
1)
2)
3)

Personal / Demographic Data
Preferences data
Transaction data

Yet there will always be a constant struggle between merchants and consumers with regards to
data: merchants and marketers always want as much as possible, users always want to give as
little as possible.
To make matters worse, many crypto-users are even more particular about privacy than average
consumers.

8

In current models, 3rd party platforms like banks, credit card companies or large marketing
platforms as Google and Facebook track collect as much data as possible about their users.
The data is then used by these platforms to create marketing solutions, or even to be on-sold to
other companies and data brokers. A look at the Terms of Use Agreements of these services
would reveal that many of these platforms have ownership rights over user data.
In the case of banks and credit card companies, vast amounts of transaction data are also
tracked along with other personal data. Given the need for luxury merchants to identify
customers who both have the means and the interest, the banks and credit card companies
become a powerful channel to promote their service offerings.

•

While Aditus users do have to input contact and preference data to receive Smart
Invitations, this data is encrypted and stored on their mobile devices.
All user data within the Aditus app will be encrypted using the Advanced Encryption
Standard (AES).
This data never leaves the phone unless specifically authorized by the user.
Matching of merchant’s targeting requirements and user data is done locally on user’s
mobile device (decentralized matching), so merchants do not get access to users until users
choose to initiate engagement with the merchants..
Our centralized servers run only the code of our front-facing user interfaces, and store no
unencrypteduser data.

•
•
•
•

Thus, on Aditus, user data is always solely within the control and ownership of the user.
We do anticipate users who may value convenience over privacy, we will offer a freemium
service for users to store their data on an encrypted server, so that they may be able to transfer
their personal data between phones.
However, Aditus as a platform is set up to satisfy the most rigorous of privacy requirements in
the user’s browsing, engagement and transactions with luxury merchants. It is a platform that
can serve even the most privacy-demanding of crypto-affluents.

5.

Aditus Value Proposition for Luxury Merchants

Aditus’ core value proposition for luxury merchants is to allow them to reach the growing new
community of crypto-affluents. In a period of slowing growth, this is a golden opportunity for
9

luxury merchants to use Aditus’ platform to be the first to serve this new group of wealthy
individuals.
The Aditus team is highly experienced in building marketing platforms linking luxury merchants
and affluent individuals, from websites to apps to magazines to events to rewards programs.
Aditus does this through two angles: payments and rewards.
Aditus’ built in incentives and rewards platform, centered around the ADI token, also allows
them to be the first to build loyalty and brand awareness with this new group of customers.
Besides opening up the new customer category of crypto-affluents to luxury merchants, Aditus
also allows merchants to reward the user directly, without paying the bulk of their marketing
budgets to middlemen.
The Brave browser and its Basic Attention Token offers a direct way for online advertisers to
reward users for their attention, thereby cutting through multiple middlemen and so aims to
solve the highly fragmented digital advertising ecosystem.
Serious problems similarly have always existed in luxury marketing because:
1)

The physical touch & feel experience and physical engagement are extremely
important in luxury purchases3, which means unlike e-commerce, there can be a
considerable time gap between marketing and the actual transaction

2)

Luxury marketing requires more precise targeting data to be effective.

3)

Luxury merchants do not like to publicise discounts and rewards openly for fear of
diminishing their brand positioning

The introduction of Smart Invitations and the Aditus platform in general allows luxury merchants
to reward users for desired actions directly, providing them with a degree of accountability not
currently offered by any marketing platform, whether they are on-chain or off-chain.

6.

Business Model

Aditus operates at core a transaction and marketing platform between luxury merchants and
crypto-affluents. On this platform, the Aditus generates revenues through:
1)

Commissions on Transactions
We pre-negotiate transaction commissions from participating merchants, so that
Aditus makes a commission on every sale. This is to be distinguished from the
Payment Gateway Fees below.
Jun 2019 Update: Since 2018, we have been one of the few crypto companies in
the world processing actual transactions in real world made with crypto-currencies
through our participating merchants.

3

Even after close to 20 years of development in the e-commerce market, and despite all the media attention
surrounding the e-commerce in luxury, >90% of all luxury purchases are still made in physical points of sale.

10

2)

Payment Processing fees
When merchants require the use of our payment gateways, they pay a small fee
(around 1%). We anticipate this fee would be lower than those charged by credit
card data networks.

3)

Membership fees from VIP users (when they purchase the Aditus VIP
Membership)

7.

Team

The founders of Aditus are veteran entrepreneurs with a track record in luxury, technology,
marketing and events. Many members of the Aditus team have worked with each other on
multiple projects over the past decade.

7.1

Core Team
Julian Peh | Co-Founder
Julian is regarded as one of the foremost entrepreneurs in luxury tech in Asia, having founded and built
Luxury-Insider.com into the leading luxury portal in Asia before it was acquired by media giant Singapore
Press Holdings. Over the past 15 years he has launched and built numerous luxury marketing platforms
including websites, apps and rewards programs focused on luxury.
He is highly experienced in digital product development and roll-out, and has been at the forefront of rolling
out tech solutions for luxury clients from online advertising, mobile marketing to data systems. His track
record includes signing up hundreds of luxury brands often for their very first forays into that technology.
He has been deeply involved in luxury rewards programs, having served as consultant for Citibank’s top
end Ultima card, as well as creating luxury rewards programs for Chinese banks and their credit cards. For
the past 3 years, he has been Co-Founder and CEO of SERA, a rewards program in partnership with Visa
China. SERA has acquired rewards from >100 luxury brand stores to date.
Julian is an active investor in cryptocurrencies, and is concurrently a shareholder of Heart Media, owner of
Singapore RendezVous, Phuket RendezVous and Penang RendezVous as well as multiple magazines and
websites.

Olivier Burlot | Co-Founder
Leading luxury entrepreneur with a long track record in luxury events and media.
One of the most successful luxury media and event entrepreneurs in Asia, Olivier was at the forefront of
luxury’s growth in Asia the last 20 years. Having helmed luxury media companies and yacht companies,
Olivier also co-founded some of the most famous luxury shows in the world including Hainan RendezVous
海天盛筵. He brings a wealth of global connections and relationships within the luxury industry.
Olivier is CEO of Heart Media, which also owns the Singapore RendezVous, Phuket RendezVous and
Penang Rendezvous, all leading luxury shows at the centre of ultra-affluent communities.

Prakash Somosundram | Co-Founder
Prakash is a leading digital entrepreneur who founded Yolk, a digital agency that served clients like
Lenovo, Microsoft, Singapore’s Ministry of Communications and the Arts. Yolk was acquired by WPP in
2011. He also listed another company TMG on Nasdaq First North. He is highly ranked as an influencer in
the fintech space in Asia. He is actively involved in startup ecosystem development and promotion in
Singapore.
In 2016 he was recognized at the Singapore Indian Business Leaders ( SIBL) awards

11

Prabhu Sengal | Lead Developer
Prabhu is the founder and CTO of The Software Practice (https://tsp.sg), a technology development firm
based in Singapore. He has architected solutions and led teams to deliver complex software solutions for
large enterprises and Government agencies including Hewlett Packard, DBS (Southeast Asia's largest
bank) and DSTA (the Defence Science and Technology Agency of Singapore).
He's an avid blockchain enthusiast who brings in substantial technical expertise in designing and
developing world-class software.

Zulkamal Ahmed | Platform Manager / UX Developer
Zulkamal is a multi-disciplined product manager with more than 10 years of full-stack application
development and management experience ranging from architectural design, UI/UX, data analysis to
marketing in the digital media space.
Prior to being in the blockchain space, he was involved in applying machine learning and data science at a
fashion-related startup and the hospitality industry. He was also one of the founding members of WebSG,
a web standards advocacy group in Singapore.

Jason Kwong | Content Manager
Jason spent seven years in the financial sector with experience in credit card marketing and equity trading
before entering into luxury media, serving as managing editor of major luxury magazines. He was an early
investor in bitcoin and ethereum. His knowledge of luxury, and a keen interest in cryptocurrencies are
summoned to the forefront at Aditus.

7.2

Advisors
Shaun Djie | Advisor
Shaun is the Co-Founder and COO of Digix Global, and is also the founder and lead organizer for
Ethereum Singapore meetup group - the largest of its kind in Asia with almost 2,800 members. Having
been exposed to blockchain technology since its early days, he was involved in a paper for the MTI Smart
Nation research on blockchain technology back in 2015. DigixGlobal, the first company to ever conduct a
crowdsale on the Ethereum blockchain, was also the first company to conduct the first ever live
transaction on Ethereum.

Akash Aggarwal | Advisor
Akash is the Founder and President of Global DCX, a digital currency exchange which allows its users to
trade digital currencies including: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, and others alongside fiat pairs. He is highly
experienced in the crypto-currency sphere, and is a member of the Digital Currency Council, ACCESS
Singapore and the Bitcoin Foundation.

Samuel Mark Reid | Advisor
Samuel is a blockchain expert, mathematician and polymath who holds multiple positions like Chief
Blockchain Engineer of Gibraltar Blockchain Exchange, Director of Spacebit. He is a mathematician and
business developer with IOTA, and also CEO and Co-founder of the Geometric Energy Corporation,
delivering mathematical and scientific consulting to industry, academia and government.

Kenneth Oh | Advisor
Kenneth is a Senior Partner with Dentons Rodyk & Davidson’s Corporate Practice, and China/Indonesia
Practices. In legal practice for over 16 years, he specialises in corporate finance – advising on venture
capital, private equity, IPOs & post-IPO funding – and mergers & acquisitions. Kenneth is one of the
leading lawyers on blockchain and crypto-currency related lawyers in Singapore, and also sits on the
board of Ferrell Asset Management, and as an advisor of Kyber Networks.

Lee Tsun Ngai | Advisor
Tsun Ngai is Head of Business Development at Kyber Networks, has been working in the data science
sector and has been involved in projects that span across FinTech, financial sector and government
agencies. He has been involved in the blockchain space since 2015. He started out by mining Ether since
it was first launched in 2015 and has helped and collaborated with various Singapore blockchain startups.

12

Jeremy Kerbel | Advisor
Jeremy is Director of Corporate Markets (APAC) at GLG. He has been an active angel investor in
blockchain start-ups and crypto-currency trader since 2013, and also serves as Strategic Advisor to
crypto-currency exchange Global DCX.

Francis Gouten | Advisor
Francis Gouten has over 35 years of experience in the luxury industry, having been CEO of Richemont Asia
Pacific, Piaget. He is also a board member of fashion retailer I.T, and hotel operator Louis XIII Holdings in
Macau.

Regina Lam | Advisor
With close to 20 years in luxury and high end fashion, Regina is a sought after a recognized expert in high
end retail and luxury, having previously been CEO of Tom Ford Asia, Staff International (7 high end fashion
brands) as well as top leadership positions in LVMH, Jean Paul Gaultier and the Swank Group. She is
currently CEO of COURONNE Management Ltd, a consultancy advising premium brands.

Francis Srun | Advisor
With over 20 years experience spanning both high-end luxury, Francis Srun is a recognized expert in
luxury, having previously been Managing Director of Ralph Lauren Asia, Piaget Watches Asia and
Boucheron Asia. In 2013, he published “Vendre Le Luxe”, a book written in French about selling Luxury,
presenting selling techniques and customer psychology.

7.3

Past & present luxury projects by founders

The co-founders of Aditus comprise many veteran entrepreneurs, with deep experience,
knowledge and connections within the luxury industries.
Some highlights include
‘RendezVous’ Events

•
•
•
•
•

Luxury-Insider.com

•
•
•
•
•

Large scale luxury events integrating yachts, real estate, private
jets, watches, fashion and all aspects of the luxury lifestyle
Each show attracts thousands of ultra-affluent visitors
Past iterations include, Jet RendezVous Macau (2008) & Jet
RendezVous Changsha (2006 and 2007), and Hainan
RendezVous 海天盛筵 (2010-2013)
Current Shows: Singapore RendezVous, Phuket RendezVous
and Penang RendezVous
Luxury events are a key part of the Aditus roll-out plan. (see Pt 10
User Acquisition)

The largest luxury portal in Asia-Pacific, founded in 2006
First to sign luxury brands for online marketing campaigns
Served hundreds of luxury clients for their digital campaigns
Voted No 1 Luxury Website by Marketing Magazine over
consecutive years
Acquired by SPH in 2014

13

SERA 奢励

•
•
•

Heart Media

•
•
•

Luxury rewards program partnering with Visa and Chinese banks
Cash-back rewards offered at >100 luxury brand boutiques in
HK, Macau
www.sera.cc
Leading luxury media company with events, print and digital
Owns numerous well-known luxury magazine brands: L’Officiel
Singapore, L’Officiel Malaysia, Men’s Folio, World of Watches,
ArtRepublik, Yacht Style, Palace
Also owns Luxuo.com and Singapore RendezVous, Phuket
RendezVous and Penang RendezVous

The luxury products and platforms we currently control reach around > 1,000,000 affluent
individuals, and serve hundreds of luxury clients monthly.
They are also where crypto-affluents will visit when looking for content on the luxury lifestyle.
These platforms will be utilized to the maximum in promoting Aditus.

7.4

Past Clients in Luxury

Through our combined >30 years of experience in luxury, we have developed a good trackrecord as well as long relationships with every major luxury brand, and hundreds of lesserknown ones across every product category.
Of note also is that we have been at the forefront of rolling out latest technological solutions to
clients, being the first to sign brands for online advertising, and luxury brand stores for mobile
marketing and mobile rewards programs. Communicating, educating and rolling-out new
technological solutions among luxury brands are a forte of our team.
Besides the luxury brands, we have also strong working relationships with the companies that
form the ‘inner infrastructure’ of the luxury industry eg, concierge companies, rewards
companies, membership clubs etc.
We will use these connections and knowledge to recruit merchants onto our platform.

14

Diagram: A small selection of the founder’s past luxury clients

8.

The Aditus Token (ADI)

8.1

Role of Token

The ADITUS Token serves the following functions:
1)
2)
3)
4)

Discount token for Service Fees on Aditus Platform
Cash-back on Purchase Price
Access to Aditus services
A possible transaction currency within Aditus ecosystem

We anticipate token demand from the following categories of token holders:
Demand from Crypto Affluents
• They will need ADITUS Tokens to pay discounted service fees on the Aditus platform
• Number of crypto-affluents will continue to grow.
Demand from Fiat Affluents

15

•

They will acquire ADITUS Tokens as part of our roll-out efforts (see Pt 10 User Acquisition
below)
Because of our unique roll-out plans, and the difficulty that fiat-affluents still face in getting
even their first bitcoin, ADITUS might be the first crypto-currency for many fiat-affluents, and
the Aditus app their first crypto-wallet.
Aditus will be their gateway to the world of blockchain and crypto-currencies.

•
•

Demand from Luxury Merchants
• They will acquire ADITUS Tokens to create Smart Invitations to reach Aditus’ users
• In a time of slowing growth, the ADITUS tokens represent how luxury merchants will access
this extremely attractive new customer community of crypto-affluents

9.

Roll-Out Road Map

9.1

User Acquisition / Roll Out

Many white papers are light on describing roll-out plans, but we at Aditus firmly believe that while
the technical components are crucial, user acquisition and the ability to build a vibrant
ecosystem are equally important in determining whether a token (and its company) gains value
(and influence) over time.
As such we have detailed our roll-out plans for Aditus below:
They fall into 4 main heads:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

Intensive Marketing to Crypto Communities through Global PR and Marketing
Physical Roll Out at Luxury Events
Crypto and Fiat-Affluents Outreach through the Aditus Foundation
Strategic Partners

Each will be explained in detail below.

9.2

Intensive Marketing to Crypto and Fiat Affluent

Communities

We will run a global marketing and communication campaign to reach crypto-affluents and fiatmillionaires highly interested in crypto-currencies.
We will execute frequent communication on our operational milestones reached. Press releases
and content marketing articles will be pushed on blockchain related websites (by our
count >400), as well as general lifestyle sites will also be targeted.
We also wish to work with partners to reach out to online communities on closed social
networks like Telegram, membership forums etc.

16

One of our key competitive strengths here is that Aditus founders not only own luxury media
platforms reaching more than a million readers monthly, but we are also known to be expert
marketers.

9.3

Physical Roll Out at Luxury Shows

Luxury shows (yacht shows, art shows, auctions etc) are ideal channels to roll-out Aditus. They
attract millions of affluent visitors every year, and represent an extremely unique concentration of
High Net Worth Individuals all in one location (captive audience from a marketing perspective).
Billions of dollars are transacted at these shows, as the exhibitors of these shows usually
represent the crème-de la crème of luxury merchants.
The fact that our co-founder Olivier Burlot is an experienced founder of major luxury shows, and
is well-connected within the luxury space, is also a huge competitive advantage. Olivier was one
of the co-founders of Hainan RendezVous, a large-scale yacht and luxury show in China. He
also presently co-owns, through Heart Media: Singapore RendezVous, Phuket RendezVous and
Penang RendezVous.

How will we roll out Aditus at luxury shows?
Aditus will be used by exhibitors (who are all luxury merchants) as the engagement and lead
generation platform for their booths.
Show attendees (fiat and crypto-affluents) will use the Aditus app to obtain Invitations and
information targeted to their preferences, serving as a powerful complement to the typical show
catalogue.
For certain shows, The Aditus platform and tokens can also be used for making in-show
payments such as for drinks or even actual purchases of goods. The diagram below shows the
use of Aditus at a partner show.

17

As seen from the diagram above, the show environment really is a micro-universe of how Aditus
will be used generally.
By rolling out Aditus at luxury shows, we have the advantage of
(1)
Exposing merchants to the benefits of Aditus directly, speeding up merchant
acquisition for our membership programs
(2)
Allowing users to physically experience the Aditus ecosystem in action
(3)
Have the captive attention (and in many cases physical booth space) to answer
questions directly from users
Indeed, the physical touch and feel factor is extremely important in luxury4. Aditus, being a luxury
product itself, will build trust and branding from this approach from the beginning.
Also notable is our activities for the Aditus Foundation, which will also be running parallel events
for the shows (see 10.4).
Update: June 2019 We have promoted Aditus at the following shows:
Phuket RendezVous
Penang RendezVous
Art Stage
And numerous events with luxury merchants.
For full details please read our official blog at https://medium.com/aditusnetwork

9.4

Crypto and Fiat Millionaire Outreach: Aditus Foundation

Crypto and Fiat Affluent Communities will eventually merge

4
>90% of all luxury purchases still occur in physical stores, despite the presence and growth of luxury e-commerce
platforms over a decade.

18

The Aditus Foundation is part of our long term plan to not only acquire users for Aditus but to
play our part in encouraging awareness and adoption of both crypto-currencies and blockchain
technologies.
We envision that the crypto-community will not remain insular for long. ‘New blood’ in the form
of fiat millionaires entering the crypto-space is only a matter of time, although there are currently
many barriers to entry and understanding.
The Aditus Foundation has the twin goals of
(1)
Evangelisation and education of crypto-currency and blockchain use among HNWI
and corporates
(2)
Encouraging interactions between crypto-affluents and fiat affluents
Activities of the Aditus Foundation
The Aditus Foundation will run frequent events, educational seminars and gatherings for both
crypto-enthusiasts and fiat millionaires.
We will also run curated Initial Token Sale selections in which token companies will get a chance
to present to affluent individuals.
Besides the gatherings, we will also run larger ‘crypto-retreats’ in conjunction with the major
luxury shows rolling out Aditus.

The first Virtual Currencies Talk
organized by the Aditus Foundation
on 7 October 2017.
The talk was held at the location of
the Singapore RendezVous 2017.
It attracted over 200 participants, an
equal mix of crypto-affluents and fiataffluents.
4 ICO pitches were made along with
many distinguished speakers from the
blockchain and crypto-currency
space.
Blockshow was one of our partners.

How the Foundation helps User Acquisition for the Aditus Platform
Through the activities of the Foundation, we hope to reach and ‘convert’ many more fiat
millionaires into crypto-users. And we believe for many of these new users, the Aditus wallet
will be their first crypto-currency wallet, and ADITUS will be their first token.

9.5

Strategic Partners

19

As the first luxury lifestyle rewards platform in the crypto-currency space, Aditus will have first
mover advantage in signing synergistic partnerships with partners.
For eg: crypto-currency debit cards like TenX, Monaco etc are ideal partners for us as they
would all need a rewards program to complement their card. Partnering with Aditus allows them
to focus on their mission-critical goal of guaranteeing payment network stability while leaving the
rewards components to us.
We have already in discussions with many prominent companies in the space, and many are
interested in having co-branding partnerships in which Aditus designs special rewards programs
for their users. Some examples of companies we have secured partnerships with include Kyber
networks, Digix Global, and Pundi X.
When the Aditus user base hits a certain size, “old-world” companies like banks and luxury
conglomerates will find us impossible to ignore. We will be able to sign partnerships with them
either to acquire tokens for their operational use, or to cross-market Aditus to their customers.

9.6

Planned Roll Out Time Line (updated Jun 2019)

Time
Dec 2017

Activity

Notes

Initial Token Sale
Q1 2018

•
•
•
•
•

Beta version of Aditus Pay launched
Roll-out and/or Publicity at Phuket RendezVous
Intensive online marketing for Aditus
Aditus listed on Coinbene, Mercatox, Coss.io
The following brands signed as Merchant Partners on
Aditus
• Christofle | Luxury Home Furnishings | Global_
• Belair Fine Art | Art Gallery | Europe, North America

•
Q2 2018
•

Intensive online PR outreach in crypto-community to
jumpstart secondary market transactions for Aditus

•

User Merchant Acquisition through the following shows:
• Mar 18: Art Basel Hong Kong
• Apr 18: I-Property, Kuala Lumpur (TBC)
• May18: Penang Rendez-Vous

•

The following brands signed as Merchant Partners on
Aditus
• Lamborghini | Supercars | Singapore
• Tecnomar Yachts | Yachts | Global
• Admiral Yachts | Yachts | Global

•

Intensive PR and marketing will be done after each
milestone reached to maintain buzz and interest in
token.

•

We work on getting more merchants to accept Aditus as
a payment currency through payment gateways.

•

Aditus Pay officially launched as a service to merchants.

20

Q3 - Q4
2018

•

•

Deep in crypto-winter, Aditus focuses on revenue
generation among the merchants signed earlier through
the Aditus Pay component

•

Aditus Pay makes revenues by processing payments by
our merchants’ clients who wish to pay in cryptocurrencies.

•

Launch of Aditus Access at the Penang RendezVous
2019
A new stable of merchants will be announced as part of
the launch

Q1 – Q2
2019

Oct 2019

•

Q4 2019

•
•
•

10.

The following brands signed as Merchant Partners on
Aditus
• Genesis Global | Diamonds & Gemstones | Global
Market
• Flyclever
• Vanuatu Citizenship by Investment | Global Market
• Yachtside Charter | Yacht Charters | Global
• Boat Lagoon Charter | Yacht Charters | Thailand
• Sunseeker Yachts | Superyachts | Thailand
• Flyclever | Flight bookings & concierge | Global
• L’Voyage | Travel Concierge | Global
• Eligo Milano | Suit Maker | Global

With both components of our platform fully launched,
the work becomes to acquire users and merchants to
increase adoption
Build liquidity and secondary market for tokens
Expand ecosystem, build buzz, grow community

Conclusion

The luxury lifestyle industry is a trillion-dollar business hungry for growth, and new cryptoaffluents and crypto-millionaires are being minted every day. Even while the crypto-markets
remains in its infant stages, there is a unique opportunity to seize the first mover advantage and
be the first to serve a huge neglected community of affluent people through their lifestyle needs.
That combined with our unique competitive advantages and our focused user acquisition plans,
means we are well placed to build a luxury lifestyle platform powered by crypto-currencies,
enjoyed by a thriving and motivated community made up of discerning individuals originating
from both fiat and crypto-currencies in the new crypto-currency economy.
The successful execution of our roll-out plan will cement Aditus’, and the ADITUS Token’s,
position at the core of the luxury lifestyle within the new age of crypto-currencies, an influential
and profitable position for a platform to be.

21

11.

Important Information

PLEASE READ THIS DISCLAIMER SECTION CAREFULLY. IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT AS TO
THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX
OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S).

This White Paper in current form is being circulated by Aditus Pte. Ltd. (“Aditus”) for general
information only on the Aditus platform as presently conceived, and is subject to review and
revision by the directors of Aditus, the board of advisors and/or legal advisors of Aditus. This
should not be treated as financial or investment advice. Please do not replicate or distribute any
part of this White Paper without this section in accompaniment. The information set forth below
may not be exhaustive and no part of this White Paper is intended to create legal relations between
a recipient of this White Paper or to be legally binding or enforceable by such recipient against
Aditus. An updated version of this White Paper may be published on a date to be determined and
announced by Aditus in due course.
While we make every effort to ensure that any material in this White Paper is accurate and up to
date, such material in no way constitutes the provision of professional advice. Aditus does not
guarantee, and accepts no legal liability whatsoever arising from or connected to, the accuracy,
reliability, currency, or completeness of any material contained in this White Paper. Investors and
potential ADITUS Token holders should seek appropriate independent professional advice prior
to relying on, or entering into any commitment or transaction based on, material published in this
White Paper, which material is purely published for reference purposes alone.
ADITUS Tokens are not be intended to constitute securities of any form, units in a business trust,
units in a collective investment scheme or any other form of regulated investment or investment
product in any jurisdiction. This White Paper does not constitute a prospectus or offer document
of any sort and is not intended to constitute an offer of securities of any form, units in a business
trust, units in a collective investment scheme or any other form of regulated investment or
investment product, or a solicitation for any form of regulated investment or investment product in
any jurisdiction. No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of the information set
out in this White Paper. No such action has been or will be taken by Aditus to obtain such approval
under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction. The provision of this White
Paper to you does not imply that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been
complied with.
Aditus or this White Paper does not constitute or form part of any opinion on any advice to
purchase, sell or otherwise transact with ADITUS Tokens and the fact of presentation of this White
Paper shall not form the basis of, or be relied upon in connection with, any contract of investment
decision.
You are not eligible and you are not to purchase any ADITUS Tokens (a) if you are located in the
United States of America or the People’s Republic of China at the time of your intended purchase
or purchase of ADITUS Tokens in the Initial Token Sale (“ITS”); or (b) if you are a citizen, resident
(tax or otherwise), domiciled in, or green card holder of the United States of America or a citizen,
domiciled in, or resident of the People’s Republic of China (“Excluded Persons”).

No ADITUS Token should be construed, interpreted, classified or treated as enabling, or according
any opportunity to, purchasers to participate in or receive profits, income, or other payments or
returns arising from or in connection with the ADITUS Tokens or the proceeds of the ITS, or to
receive sums paid out of such profits, income, or other payments or returns.
No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal commitment in relation to the sale
and purchase of the ADITUS Tokens, and no cryptocurrency or other form of payment is to be
accepted on the basis of this White Paper.

22

Any agreement as between Aditus and you as a purchaser, and in relation to any sale and
purchase, of ADITUS Tokens is to be governed by only a separate document setting out the terms
and conditions (the “T&Cs”) of such agreement. In the event of any inconsistencies between the
T&Cs and this White Paper, the former shall prevail.
There are risks and uncertainties associated with Aditus and its business and operations, the
ADITUS Tokens, the Aditus platform or protocol and the ITS. Please refer to the section entitled
“Risks and Disclosures” set out at the end of this White Paper.
This White Paper, any part thereof and any copy thereof must not be taken or transmitted to any
country where distribution or dissemination of this White Paper is prohibited or restricted.
No part of this White Paper is to be reproduced, distributed or disseminated without including this
section and the following sections entitled “Disclaimer of Liability”, “No Representations and
Warranties”, “Representations and Warranties By You”, “Cautionary Note On Forward-Looking
Statements”, “Third Party Information and No Consent of Other Persons”, “Terms Used”, “No
Advice”, “No Further Information or Update”, “Restrictions On Distribution and Dissemination” and
“Risks and Uncertainties”.
DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws, regulations and rules, Aditus shall not
be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort,
contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of
use or data), arising out of or in connection with any acceptance of or reliance on this White Paper
or any part thereof by you.
NO REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

Aditus does not make or purport to make, and hereby disclaims, any representation, warranty or
undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person, including any representation, warranty
or undertaking in relation to the truth, accuracy and completeness of any of the information set
out in this White Paper.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES BY YOU

By accessing and/or accepting possession of any information in this White Paper or such part
thereof (as the case may be), you represent and warrant to Aditus as follows:
i.

you agree and acknowledge that the ADITUS Tokens do not constitute securities of any
form, units in a business trust, units in a collective investment scheme or any other form
of regulated investment or investment product in any jurisdiction;

ii.

you are not an Excluded Person, or a citizen or resident of a country the laws of which
prohibit or conflict with the ITS or your participation in the ITS;

iii.

you agree and acknowledge that this White Paper does not constitute a prospectus or
offer document of any sort and is not intended to constitute an offer of securities of any
form, units in a business trust, units in a collective investment scheme or any other form
of regulated investment or investment product in any jurisdiction, or a solicitation for any
form of regulated investment or investment product, and you are not bound to enter into
any contract or binding legal commitment and no cryptocurrency or other form of
payment is to be accepted on the basis of this White Paper;

iv.

you acknowledge and understand that no ADITUS Token should be construed,
interpreted, classified or treated as enabling, or according any opportunity to, ADITUS
Tokenholders to participate in or receive profits, income, or other payments or returns

23

arising from or in connection with the ADITUS Tokens or the proceeds of the ITS, or to
receive sums paid out of such profits, income, or other payments or returns;
v.

you agree and acknowledge that no regulatory authority has examined or approved of
the information set out in this White Paper, no action has been or will be taken by Aditus
to obtain such approval under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction
and the publication, distribution or dissemination of this White Paper to you does not imply
that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with;

vi.

you agree and acknowledge that this White Paper, the undertaking and/or the completion
of the ITS, or future trading of ADITUS Tokens on any cryptocurrency exchange, shall not
be construed, interpreted or deemed by you as an indication of the merits of Aditus, the
ADITUS Tokens, the ITS, and the Aditus platform or protocol;

vii.

the distribution or dissemination of this White Paper, any part thereof or any copy thereof,
or acceptance of the same by you, is not prohibited or restricted by the applicable laws,
regulations or rules in your jurisdiction, and where any restrictions in relation to possession
are applicable, you have observed and complied with all such restrictions at your own
expense and without liability to Aditus;

viii.

You agree and acknowledge that in the case where you wish to purchase any ADITUS
Tokens, ADITUS Tokens are not to be construed, interpreted, classified or treated as:
(i)

any kind of currency other than cryptocurrency;

(ii)

debentures, stocks or shares issued by any person or entity;

(iii)

rights, options or derivatives in respect of such debentures, stocks or shares;

(iv)

rights under a contract for differences or under any other contract the purpose
or pretended purpose of which is to secure a profit or avoid a loss;

(v)

securities;

(vi)

units or derivatives of units in a business trust;

(vii)

units in a collective investment scheme; or

(viii)

any form of regulated investment or investment product;

ix.

you are fully aware of and understand that you are not eligible and you are not to purchase
any ADITUS Tokens if you are an Excluded Person;

x.

you are legally permitted to participate in the ITS and all actions contemplated or
associated with such purchase, including the holding and use of ADITUS Tokens;

xi.

the amounts that you use to purchase ADITUS Tokens were not and are not directly or
indirectly derived from any activities that contravene the laws and regulations of any
jurisdiction, including anti-money laundering laws and regulations;

xii.

if you are a natural person, you are of sufficient age and capacity under the applicable
laws of the jurisdiction in which you reside and the jurisdiction of which you are a citizen
to participate in the ITS;

xiii.

you are not obtaining or using ADITUS Tokens for any illegal purpose;

24

xiv.

none of: (i) you; (ii) any person controlling or controlled by you; (iii) if you are a privatelyheld entity, any person having a beneficial interest in you; or (iv) any person for whom you
are acting as agent or nominee in connection with this ITS is a senior foreign political
figure, or any immediate family member or close associate of a senior foreign political
figure. A “senior foreign political figure” is defined as a senior official in the executive,
legislative, administrative, military or judicial branch of a government (whether elected or
not), a senior official of a major political party, or a senior executive of a foreign
government-owned corporation, and includes any corporation, business or other entity
that has been formed by, or for the benefit of, a senior foreign political figure. “Immediate
family” of a senior foreign political figure typically includes such figure’s parents, siblings,
spouse, children and in-laws. A “close associate” of a senior foreign political figure is a
person who is widely and publicly known to maintain an unusually close relationship with
such senior foreign political figure, and includes a person who is in a position to conduct
substantial domestic and international financial transactions on behalf of such senior
foreign political figure;

xv.

if you are affiliated with a non-U.S. banking institution (“Foreign Bank”), or if you receive
deposits from, make payments on behalf of, or handle other financial transactions related
to a Foreign Bank, you represent and warrant to Aditus that: (i) the Foreign Bank has a
fixed address, and not solely an electronic address, in a country in which the Foreign Bank
is authorized to conduct banking activities; (ii) the Foreign Bank maintains operating
records related to its banking activities; (iii) the Foreign Bank is subject to inspection by
the banking authority that licensed the Foreign Bank to conduct its banking activities; and
(iv) the Foreign Bank does not provide banking services to any other Foreign Bank that
does not have a physical presence in any country and that is not a regulated affiliate;

xvi.

you have a basic degree of understanding of the operation, functionality, usage, storage,
transmission mechanisms and other material characteristics of cryptocurrencies,
blockchain-based software systems, cryptocurrency wallets or other related token
storage mechanisms, blockchain technology and smart contract technology;

xvii.

you are fully aware and understand that in the case where you wish to purchase any
ADITUS Tokens, there are risks associated with Aditus and its businesses and operations,
ADITUS Tokens, the ADITUS platform or protocol and the ITS;

xviii.

you bear the sole responsibility to determine what tax implications purchasing ADITUS
Tokens may have for you and agree not to hold Aditus or any other person involved in the
ITS liable for any tax liability associated with or arising therefrom;

xix.

you agree and acknowledge that Aditus is not liable for any direct, indirect, special,
incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise
(including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of use or data),
arising out of or in connection with any acceptance of or reliance on this White Paper or
any part thereof by you;

xx.

you waive the right to participate in a class action lawsuit or a class wide arbitration against
Aditus and/or any person involved in the ITS and/or with the creation and distribution of
ADITUS Tokens; and

xxi.

all of the above representations and warranties are true, complete, accurate and nonmisleading from the time of your access to and/or acceptance of possession this White
Paper or such part thereof (as the case may be).

CAUTIONARY NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

All statements contained in this White Paper, statements made in press releases or in any place
accessible by the public and oral statements that may be made by Aditus or its directors, executive

25

officers or employees acting on behalf of Aditus (as the case may be), that are not statements of
historical fact, constitute “forward-looking statements”. Some of these statements can be
identified by forward-looking terms such as “aim”, “target”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “could”,
“estimate”, “expect”, “if”, “intend”, “may”, “plan”, “possible”, “probable”, “project”, “should”,
“would”, “will” or other similar terms. However, these terms are not the exclusive means of
identifying forward-looking statements. All statements regarding Aditus’s business strategies,
plans and prospects and the future prospects of the industry which Aditus is in are forward-looking
statements. These forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements as to
Aditus’s prospects, future plans, other expected industry trends and other matters discussed in
this White Paper regarding Aditus are matters that are not historic facts, but only predictions.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other
factors that may cause the actual future results, performance or achievements of Aditus to be
materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expected, expressed or
implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, amongst others:
(a)

changes in political, social, economic and stock or cryptocurrency market conditions, and
the regulatory environment in the countries in which Aditus conducts its business and
operations;

(b)

the risk that Aditus may be unable to execute or implement its business strategies and
future plans;

(c)

changes in interest rates and exchange rates of fiat currencies and cryptocurrencies;

(d)

changes in the anticipated growth strategies and expected internal growth of Aditus and
the Aditus platform;

(e)

changes in the availability and fees payable to Aditus in connection with its businesses
and operations or on the Aditus platform;

(f)

changes in the availability and salaries of employees who are required by Aditus to operate
their respective businesses and operations;

(g)

changes in preferences of users of the Aditus platform;

(h)

changes in competitive conditions under which Aditus operates, and the ability of Aditus
to compete under such conditions;

(i)

changes in the future capital needs of Aditus and the availability of financing and capital
to fund such needs;

(j)

war or acts of international or domestic terrorism;

(k)

occurrences of catastrophic events, natural disasters and acts of God that affect the
businesses and/or operations of Aditus;

(l)

other factors beyond the control of Aditus; and

(m)

any risk and uncertainties associated with Aditus and its business and operations, the
ADITUS Tokens, the Aditus platform or protocol and the ITS.

All forward-looking statements made by or attributable to Aditus or persons acting on behalf of
Aditus are expressly qualified in their entirety by such factors. Given that risks and uncertainties
that may cause the actual future results, performance or achievements of Aditus to be materially
different from that expected, expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this White

26

Paper, undue reliance must not be placed on these statements. These forward-looking statements
are applicable only as of the date of this White Paper.
Neither Aditus nor any other person represents, warrants and/or undertakes that the actual future
results, performance or achievements of Aditus will be as discussed in those forward-looking
statements. The actual results, performance or achievements of Aditus may differ materially from
those anticipated in these forward-looking statements.
Nothing contained in this White Paper is or may be relied upon as a promise, representation or
undertaking as to the future performance or policies of Aditus.
Further, Aditus disclaims any responsibility to update any of those forward-looking statements or
publicly announce any revisions to those forward-looking statements to reflect future
developments, events or circumstances, even if new information becomes available or other
events occur in the future.
THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND NO CONSENT OF OTHER PERSONS

This White Paper includes information obtained from various third party sources (“Third Party
Information”). None of the publishers of the Third Party Information has consented to the inclusion
of the Third Party Information in this White Paper and is therefore not liable for the Third Party
Information. While Aditus has taken reasonable action to ensure that the Third Party Information
have been included in their proper form and context, neither Aditus, nor its directors, executive
officers and employees acting on its behalf, has independently verified the accuracy, reliability,
completeness of the contents, or ascertained any applicable underlying assumption, of the
relevant Third Party Information. Consequently, neither Aditus nor its directors, executive officers
and employees acting on their behalf makes any representation or warranty as to the accuracy,
reliability or completeness of such information and shall not be obliged to provide any updates on
the same.
TERMS USED

To facilitate a better understanding of the ADITUS Tokens being offered for purchase by Aditus,
and the businesses and operations of Aditus, certain technical terms and abbreviations, as well
as, in certain instances, their descriptions, have been used in this White Paper. These descriptions
and assigned meanings should not be treated as being definitive of their meanings and may not
correspond to standard industry meanings or usage.
Words importing the singular shall, where applicable, include the plural and vice versa and words
importing the masculine gender shall, where applicable, include the feminine and neuter genders
and vice versa. References to persons shall include corporations.
NO ADVICE

No information in this White Paper should be considered to be business, legal, financial or tax
advice regarding Aditus, the ADITUS Tokens, the Aditus platform or protocol, or the ITS. You
should consult your own legal, financial, tax or other professional advisor regarding Aditus and its
business and operations, the ADITUS Tokens, the Aditus platform or protocol, and the ITS. You
should be aware that you may be required to bear the financial risk of any exchange for of ADITUS
Tokens for an indefinite period of time.
NO FURTHER INFORMATION OR UPDATE

No person has been or is authorised to give any information or representation not contained in
this White Paper in connection with Aditus and its business and operations, the ADITUS Tokens,
the Aditus platform or protocol, or the ITS and, if given, such information or representation must
not be relied upon as having been authorised by or on behalf of Aditus. The ITS shall not, under

27

any circumstances, constitute a continuing representation or create any suggestion or implication
that there has been no change, or development reasonably likely to involve a material change in
the affairs, conditions and prospects of Aditus or in any statement of fact or information contained
in this White Paper since the date hereof.
RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION AND DISSEMINATION

The distribution or dissemination of this White Paper or any part thereof may be prohibited or
restricted by the laws, regulatory requirements and rules of any jurisdiction. In the case where any
restriction applies, you are to inform yourself about, and to observe, any restrictions which are
applicable to your possession of this White Paper or such part thereof (as the case may be) at
your own expense and without liability to Aditus.
Persons to whom a copy of this White Paper has been distributed or disseminated, provided
access to or who otherwise have the White Paper in their possession shall not circulate it to any
other persons, reproduce or otherwise distribute this White Paper or any information contained
herein for any purpose whatsoever nor permit or cause the same to occur.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

Prospective purchasers of ADITUS Tokens should carefully consider and evaluate all risks and
uncertainties associated with Aditus and its business and operations, the ADITUS Tokens, the
Aditus platform or protocol, and the ITS, and all information set out in this White Paper and the
T&Cs prior to any purchase of the ADITUS Tokens. If any of such risks and uncertainties develops
into actual events, the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of Aditus
could be materially and adversely affected. In such cases, you may lose all or part of the value of
the ADITUS Tokens.

28

