AERGO​ ​Whitepaper

The Blockchain Fuel
for Autonomous Business

Last Updated: 10 July 2018, A
​ ERGO

ABSTRACT
The blockchain is a form of technology that introduces for the first time, a cryptographic
secure digital database of transactions that does not possess the points of failure and
security issues of traditional databases. Its unique characteristics provide the potential for
blockchain based products and services to disrupt many business models in many industries
(for example, financial services, manufacturing, distribution, insurance, healthcare,
government and the internet of things (“​IoT​”)). Blockchain technology typically aim to provide
three major characteristics that are important for businesses:
Security - Transparency​ - ​Trust
It achieves this through the use of a peer-to-peer (“​P2P​”) network of distributed computers,
where the data is securely deployed and stored using advanced cryptography.
To quote the previous Chief Operating Officer of UBS: “​the blockchain is a potentially
transformative technology that will leave as deep a mark on our world over the next 20 years
as the Internet has over the last 20”1.
The benefits of blockchain technology have not gone unnoticed, resulting in many blockchain
implementations existing today. Most of these use and operate on computer networks that
are easy to join and participate in. These permissionless implementations are often known as
“public blockchain protocols” (such as Bitcoin and Ethereum). However, the use of an existing
blockchain comes with many problems for existing businesses, mainly due to the lack of
control over its features and development. While private/permissioned blockchains aim to
fulfil the promise of becoming “fit-for-purpose”, they entail immense costs in terms of
infrastructure and forfeit the ability to evolve at the speed of open source.
The vast majority of both public and private implementations are in the early stages of their
development (and currently use 3​rd generation technologies). Projects typically focus on one
type of blockchain versus the other. As such, most are only used for simple proof-of-concept
(“​PoC​”) test-cases. Despite many such projects, the evolution of the blockchain stack is still
stagnating, due to difficulties with enterprise IT integration and a lack of developer-friendly
and easy-to-use software tools. Many implementations also lack the enterprise grade
capabilities that are critical to run real business applications in both private and public
deployments. The technology behind blockchain needs to mature and become more
accessible for it to become a widely used and deployed architecture. Additional services and
capabilities are also needed for it to be a commonly used business platform.
Whoever can provide the protocol and needed supporting enterprise IT, developer and 3​rd
party services, has the opportunity to become as important to the future of the
world-wide-web and “serverless utility computing” as TCP/IP became for the Internet.
The AERGO Project (“​AERGO​”​, ​“​Platform​” or “​AERGO Platform​”) is a serious disrupter. It is
also very different. It proposes to be a 4​th generation “enterprise ready” blockchain protocol
combined with an IT platform that uses new and more advanced technologies. It proposes to
A
​ lex Batlin, et al. (2016). ​Building the trust engine​. Available:
https://www.ubs.com/microsites/blockchain-report/en/home.html
1

1

include a comprehensive ecosystem of complementary decentralized application (“​dApp​”),
technologies and service providers that leverage secure cloud delivery models. Underlying
technologies in AERGO are proposed to be made open source as it is truly an open and
decentralised system.
AERGO is being built for ​developers​, for businesses ​and the ​IT suppliers that enable
them.
AERGO’s platform seeks to enable enterprises and developers to easily design, build and
deploy their own blockchain applications within the cloud. The platform aims to offer the
possibility for creators to tailor their blockchain and applications to their needs, by giving them
the choice to run across either a public or private network. Taking into account the differing
characteristics private and public blockchain implementations present, the choice between
the two aims to give enterprises and developers the flexibility they desire when designing a
purpose-specific application. Hosting everything across a secure cloud-hosted distributed
network, AERGO also aims to alleviate businesses from significant overheads through the
elimination of needing to establish physical infrastructure themselves to run blockchain
protocols and applications.
AERGO’s core technology is based on COINSTACK2 from Blocko Inc. (“​Blocko​”), a leading
blockchain technology and enterprise IT integration-services company with operations in the
UK, South Korea and Hong Kong. COINSTACK-based blockchain systems have already
been deployed to 25 million users in over 20 in-production systems.
Blocko is now preparing and developing some of the core key technologies for AERGO. It
proposes to provide comprehensive IT integration and support services for clients who wish
to deploy and maintain new products and business services based on AERGO. Proposed
new technologies include: a super-fast and efficient blockchain protocol; a new powerful SQL
smart contract engine; advanced IT integration APIs; and easy to use developer tools. These
are intended to be supported by a dApp orchestration and deployment framework to allow
developers and businesses to install, manage and use these applications.
AERGO aims to advance enterprise blockchain, by opening up a new era of mass market
usage of blockchain. An era where businesses can benefit from both public and private
blockchain innovation, while focusing on building, deploying and managing new services. In
short, the AERGO Project aims to provide:
1.

advanced, yet friendly and easy to use technology for developers and contractors

2.

a secure and fast public and private blockchain cloud architecture for businesses

3.

an open ecosystem for third parties and businesses to connect and engage with

A
​ ERGO, the blockchain fuel for autonomous business

A
​ 3rd generation blockchain platform (including developer tools, blockchain operating system, integration APIs)
www.blocko.io
2

2

DISCLAIMERS
This whitepaper and any other documents published in association with this
whitepaper relate to the intended development and use of AERGO. They are for
information purposes only and may be subject to change.

This whitepaper describes a future project
This whitepaper contains forward-looking statements that are based on the beliefs of Blocko
Inc., which has prepared this whitepaper as part of its ongoing support of the project.
AERGO as envisaged in this whitepaper is under development and is being constantly
updated, including but not limited to key governance and t​ echnical features. The AERGO
Token involves and relates to the development and use of experimental platforms (software)
and technologies that may not come to fruition or achieve the objectives specified in this
whitepaper.
If and when AERGO is completed, it may differ significantly from the network set out in this
whitepaper. No representation or warranty is given as to the achievement or reasonableness
of any plans, future projections or prospects and nothing in this document is or should be
relied upon as a promise or representation as to the future.

Eligible purchasers
The information in this whitepaper is provided privately to certain prospective purchasers and
is not intended to be received or read by anyone else. Eligibility is not guaranteed and is likely
to be subject to restrictions

No offer of regulated products
The AERGO platform, AERGO Token or any token that operates on it is not intended to
represent a security or any other regulated product in any jurisdiction.
This document does not constitute an offer or solicitation of securities or any other regulated
product, nor a promotion, invitation or solicitation for investment purposes. The terms of the
purchase are not intended to be a financial service offering document or a prospectus of any
sort.
AERGO Token does not represent equity, shares, units, royalties or rights to capital, profit,
returns or income in the platform or software or in any company or intellectual property
associated with the platform or any other public or private enterprise, corporation, foundation
or other entity in any jurisdiction.

This whitepaper is not advice
This whitepaper does not constitute advice to purchase AERGO Token. It must not be relied
upon in connection with any contract or purchasing decision.

3

Risk warning
The purchase of AERGO Token and participation in AERGO Token sale carries with it
significant risks.
Prior to purchasing AERGO Token, you should carefully assess and take into account the
risks, including those listed in any other documentation.

Views expressed in this whitepaper
The views and opinions expressed in this whitepaper are those of Blocko and do not reflect
the official policy or position of any government, quasi-government, authority or public body
(including but not limited to any regulatory body of any jurisdiction) in any jurisdiction.
Information contained in this whitepaper is based on sources considered reliable but there is
no assurance as to their accuracy or completeness.

English is the authorised language of this whitepaper
This whitepaper and related materials are issued in English only. Any translation is for
reference purposes only and is not certified by AERGO or any other person. No assurance
can be made as to the accuracy and completeness of any translations. If there is any
inconsistency between a translation and the English version of this whitepaper, the English
version prevails.

No third party affiliation or endorsements
References in this whitepaper to specific companies and platforms are for illustrative
purposes only. The use of any company and/or platform names and trademarks does not
imply any affiliation with, or endorsement by, any of those parties.

You must obtain all necessary professional advice
You must consult a lawyer, accountant, tax professional and/or any other professional
advisors as necessary prior to determining whether to purchase AERGO Token or otherwise
participate in the AERGO project.
This whitepaper has not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in any jurisdiction.
References in this whitepaper to specific companies, networks and/or potential use cases are
for illustrative purposes only. Other than explicitly mentioned partners or providers such as
Blocko Inc., the use of any other company and/or platform names and trademarks does not
imply any affiliation with, or endorsement by, any of those parties.
Amounts are expressed in United States dollars (“USD”) unless expressly stated otherwise.

4

TABLE OF CONTENTS

ABSTRACT

1​

DISCLAIMERS

3
​

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

6
​

ENTERPRISE MARKET OPPORTUNITY
The Opportunity

8

The Obstacle

13

AERGO

17

AERGO​ C
​ HAIN

22

AERGO​ PUBLIC & PRIVATE REPOSITORIES

32

AERGO​ H
​ UB

34

AERGO​ MARKETPLACE

36

Native Blockchain Asset and Token Model

38

Token Distribution and Use of Funds

39

Development Roadmap

40

Execution Plan

41

APPENDICES
Appendix-A: Blockchain and Open Platforms Primer

43

Appendix-B: Blockchain and Utility Computing

53

Appendix-C: Private vs Public Enterprise Blockchain

60

Appendix-D: AERGO Team and Advisers

63

Appendix-E: Glossary of Terms

67
5

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
When Satoshi Nakamoto introduced Bitcoin to the world in 2008, the new cryptocurrency was
meant to enable electronic cash payments directly between individuals without the use of
banks. Ten years later, the groundbreaking technology Nakamoto invented to power Bitcoin
is being championed by enterprises in all kinds of industries as a way to radically improve
their future products, services and businesses.
As the digital world moves towards a next generation utility computing model (where value is
created across open networks and highly distributed ecosystems), blockchain has the
potential to become one of the primary enterprise platforms to build these systems and
ecosystems on.
In this new world, attention is likely to move away from developers having to understand and
cater for complex IT architectures and the respective management and operation functions.
This can help allow them to focus on application innovation and value creation at the front
end of the process, where applications touch and interact with the end-user (and billions of
future IoT devices). In this “serverless architecture” much of the IT complexity will be
abstracted or simply hidden from the developer and the end-user. Applications will run as
containers and microservices on a combination of secure private and public clouds, delivered
from a wide variety of managed cloud delivery partners.
In order to achieve the promise to become one of the major platforms for this kind of utility
computing world, a step change ​is ​required. Not only around core elements of the blockchain
operating system itself, but in creating a completely new “enterprise blockchain platform” and
associated ecosystem. These need to support the creation, deployment and management of
new secure distributed microservice-based applications on blockchain.
To become mainstream (so that companies and third-parties can create value in this new
world) the technologies, tools and methods need to be robust while being simple to use. They
also need to be low cost.
This paper introduces AERGO: a next generation enterprise blockchain protocol and
platform. AERGO aims to become one of the core mainstream IT architectures and models
used by application developers and enterprise companies across a vast number of industries.
It is envisioned that thousands of innovative new products, services and business
ecosystems will emerge that are built and run on AERGO.
In order to explain the current and future target market (i.e. describe the existing problem and
business opportunity that lies ahead) this paper summarises a number of important enterprise
needs, and fast evolving IT, technology and blockchain trends. Whilst many technical
concepts are described, many of these have been simplified to explain them in a
business-friendly manner. We also include more detailed information on each core topic by
way of the included appendices (for example a blockchain “primer” in Appendix-A).
Core elements of AERGO are built on technologies developed by Blocko. Blocko is a leading
blockchain firm that has helped some of the world's leading firms to design and deploy real
business systems on a secure blockchain. Over the past four years it has learned a lot.
Blocko believes that its existing core technology and advanced blockchain in-production
6

capabilities could form the basis of a new advanced blockchain platform for business. Proven
technologies, that are already in use with over 25 million users.3
Blocko is contributing its core technology to AERGO. It may also deliver future services to the
AERGO including consulting and maintenance services to future customers of AERGO.
As the open source platform develops and achieves higher levels of adoption with developers
and businesses, it is anticipated that other companies may offer similar and complementary
services to Blocko for AERGO.

G
​ il, Jae-sik (2018). ​“신한금융, 블록체인 기반 그룹 통합 인증 앱 만든다.”​ ETNews.com, 22 Jan. 2018, Available:
www.etnews.com/20180122000304.
3

7

THE OPPORTUNITY
IMPORTANT CHANGES HAPPENING IN THE WWW AND IT TECH-INDUSTRY
The tech-industry is full of promise. It is also full of buzzwords and “the next big thing”.
In truth, what we have seen over the past 30 years is a gradual evolution and transition
between what is called Web 1.0 and Web 2.0.
Web 1.0 brought us the basic internet, Dial-up modems, static (slow websites) and the most
basic of mobile phones.
Web 2.0 advanced and changed this. The advent of iPhone and Android smartphones
transformed the way customers interact and exchange information with one another (social
media networks like Facebook, or instant multi-media messaging and video services like
Twitter, Skype and Youtube). It also changed the way businesses could communicate with
their markets (e-commerce via Amazon, or search and advertising through Google etc.).
Web 2.0 brought us interactive, hyper-connected, immersive, virtual, digital online
ecosystems to create and share knowledge and collaborate and interact together. However,
these systems were built on highly centralized mega-platforms. Platforms where vast
amounts of user, customer and business data (including perhaps even more important,
meta-data) are collected, mined and exploited by the owners of the platforms. Data became
the new oil. However, much like oil production, few (business) parties could get into
production to “extract” fair value from these ecosystems.
Many existing IT vendors support this multi-trillion industry. Building and selling the
technologies and tools allows mega-platform providers to collect, manage, analyse and
monetize this data in secure centralized (database) systems.
In short, Web 2.0 made new business models possible - but the largest benefits (and profits)
primarily flowed into the balance sheets of a handful of digital global mega-firms.
Web 3.0 and so-called Web 4.0 are other buzzwords. Yet despite this, they describe the
future state that promises a more “intelligent web”. One where data is used to provide
hyper-personalized products and contextual services for customers. Many of these services
will run on and connect with billions of mobile and other IoT devices. These connections will
increasingly also be in real-time.
At the same time, IT technologies are going through some major enhancements and
changes. In part these are driven by wider adoption of more secure cloud services in
business. This is also due to wide adoption of increasingly open source based platforms
(such as Linux as an operating system and Hadoop or TensorFlow to collect and leverage
(big) data). The most commonly used development tools and middleware for software
programmers are also now almost all based on open source projects. Developers
increasingly want to create new apps that run on open platforms.
The above technology factors are enabling an entirely new way of developing new services
on low-cost commodity-like IT architectures. This is what we call “utility serverless
computing”.
8

In this “serverless architecture” the focus will move away from developers and businesses
having to understand complex programming languages. They will also no longer have to
cater for creating and managing complex IT architectures. The IT complexity will be
abstracted or simply hidden from the developer and the end-user; focus moves towards the
application and the service itself. A shift in mindset and a shift in focus.
It is forecast that global IT spend will reach $3.7 trillion USD by the end of this year4; it will
also likely eclipse $4 trillion USD within three years. The International Telecommunication
Union has separately estimated that about 3.2 billion people, or almost half of the world's
population, would be online by the end of this year. Of them, about 2 billion are from
developing countries.
These users will generate a vast amount of data that will be floating around, and as big digital
corporations realised, personal information is an enormously valuable asset. Over the past 20
years, there has been a mass stockpiling of data in centralised servers, with Google,
Amazon, Facebook and Twitter the biggest custodians. People sacrificed privacy and data
ownership for the convenience of these services. Whether they knew it or not, their identities,
browsing habits, searches and online shopping information were sold to the highest
(advertising) bidder.
At the same time that these technology and internet innovations were happening, consumers,
businesses and in fact governments across the world have become more savvy and
demanding on how personal and business data is collected, stored and accessed (used).
New legislation has already been introduced in particular jurisdictions (such as the General
Data Protection Regulation (“​GDPR​”)5.
Today, a few digital giants have created the leading solutions that have allowed them to
capture a disproportionate piece of the Web 2.0 opportunity, with monopoly-like data-hungry
services that ran in centralised and highly protected closed ecosystems and databases.
However, in the new emerging (and more data aware) next generation serverless utility
computing world, there is a huge opportunity for new players to create innovative products
and services, by capturing value in more open and trusted distributed ecosystems.
As this architectural methodology matures, we believe it will increasingly be taken up for
many thousands of new business projects in almost every sector of industry that deals with
digital asset exchange.
For example, Everest Group has predicted that blockchain will achieve accelerated adoption
within the next few years in the banking industry (see Figure 24 on page 58).
We believe this new world is the next phase of the internet: the human-centered
decentralized internet.

A
​ non. (2018). ​Gartner Says Global IT Spending to Reach $3.7 Trillion in 2018​. Available:
https://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/3845563
5
E
​ U Parliament. (2018). ​The EU General Data Protection Regulation.​ Available: https://www.eugdpr.org/
4

9

BLOCKCHAIN’S ROLE
Even though it is still young and immature in IT terms, blockchain provides probably the most
innovative and secure, transparent and trusted way for developers and companies to capture
value in more open and trusted future distributed ecosystems.
Democratisation is the idea. Blockchain provides the means.
For the first time ever, we are able to create a decentralised architecture of the internet,
whereby the consensus (regarding trust, data integrity and governance) across an entire
network can be achieved securely and efficiently without a third party (controlling)
intermediary.
Blockchain-enabled systems are intended to allow for the creation of a single, universal,
absolutely trustworthy and indestructible record (ledger) of digital assets and associated
transactions.
It can do so in ways that are often better and more efficient than the tools used today. For
one, blockchain technology creates a viable, decentralized record of cryptographically
encoded transactions (the distributed ledger), which allows for the substitution of a traditional
master database with central points of failure and other security issues. The most critical area
where blockchain helps is to guarantee the validity of a transaction by recording it not only on
a main register but a connected distributed system of databases, all of which are connected
through a secure validation mechanism.
Second generation blockchain technologies allowed for a network of peers to administer their
own ‘smart contracts’ - computer programmes carried on the blockchain that execute their
terms autonomously and without an intermediary once the criteria have been met.
At the platform level, we believe this has the potential to lead to radical simplification and cost
reduction for large parts of many digital ecosystems, while making them more open, secure
and reliable. User and business data is collected and stored in a secure distributed way. This
also prevents (existing and future) tech-giants from hoarding and abusing the same data for
their own business gain.
Perhaps the most exciting area of development, however, will be the dApps that run on a
blockchain system.
A ​dApp is an abbreviated form for decentralized application. A dApp has its backend software
code running on a decentralized peer-to-peer network. Contrast this with a typical app where
the backend code is running on centralized servers.
Although the benefits of dApps to specific industries are still largely unknown by mainstream
internet audiences, they show great promise.
Services that use dApps support the creation of a user-and-business-centric web where user
and customers retain complete ownership of their data, identity and digital assets.
Some of the key potential benefits of dApps include:
●
●
●

dramatic simplification of supply and value chains (removing many “middle-men”)
ability to settle transactions and close deals automatically (anytime)
Super accurate pay-as-you-go revenue business transactions
10

●
●
●
●
●

improved security (in terms of immutability) of data and applications stored
increased business (faster and more reliable transactions)
reduced overhead costs (such as personnel and facilities)
transaction fraud prevention (ultimate trust machine)
significantly lower average transaction costs (simpler overall architecture)

Many potential use cases exist for dApp’s on serverless utility computing implementations.
While the adoption of serverless dApps is still very much work-in-progress, early indicators
show that they will become a major force in how businesses deliver new services via secure
and distributed cloud based services.
There is also much written about proofs-of-concept and even a few (simple) in-production
deployments of blockchain. However, there are a number of challenges today with
blockchain, especially if it is to be adopted by enterprise scale businesses.
These include the following:
●

it is hard for developers and IT contractors to write applications for blockchain

●

there are (too) many conflicting implementation models to choose from

●

the ability to design, test, deploy and manage is crucial for scaling and running dApps

●

it often lacks the performance needed or data controls typical of businesses

●

it can be very difficult to integrate a new blockchain project into existing IT systems

●

it is likely there will be a need to build multiple blockchains within an enterprise firm

In short, businesses may find it very difficult to support multiple blockchain solutions.
Appendix-B provides more details of blockchain in this serverless utility computing world.

11

ENTER AERGO.
As noted there are challenges with blockchain today. However, we strongly believe that open,
secure, distributed business ecosystems on blockchain will win in the long run.
What is needed for enterprise businesses and developers is a feature-rich, open and
easy-to-use horizontal enterprise development and deployment blockchain “platform”. Not
just another blockchain protocol, but a fully-featured ecosystem to enable and promote
cooperation amongst the many stakeholders involved.
A blockchain platform that can support any industry and any sector.
This platform needs to include a “middleware and normalization layer” that serves to
seamlessly connect legacy IT software to the new world of distributed serverless blockchain
systems.
A platform that is built for business, developers, system integrators and other key third-parties
who all have an important role to play in these emerging distributed ecosystems .
In our opinion, this is perhaps the most challenging (but also the most exciting) area of
development for blockchain which we will see over the coming three to five years.
With Global IT spend at circa $4 USD trillion, such an enterprise blockchain platform can both
create and capture significant value for businesses and its creators.
This is the primary rationale and focus for the AERGO Project.

12

THE OBSTACLE
There are several obstacles for enterprises who want to adopt and use public and private
blockchain environments. It is challenges like these that perhaps explain why we have yet to
see numerous mass-deployed in-production systems built on blockchain in many industries.
LACK OF RELIABILITY
Lack of full control of their IT infrastructure raises operational issues for businesses. Public
blockchains have been subjected to frequent “hard forks” (i.e. it was sometimes necessary to
modify the underlying technology, thereby creating a totally separate variant of the original
software program). When a public blockchain experiences a hard fork, the dApp applications
are meant to continue to operate as usual on the new version of the protocol. When you
consider the spider-web like relations between enterprise solutions, a hard fork on a simple
user-application could potentially cause a critical business failure.
Hard forks can often increase the vulnerability of the IT network itself such that it may
become susceptible to issues such as a network replay or denial-of-service (“​DDoS​”) attack.
As an example, there have already been a number of hard-forks of the original Bitcoin
blockchain protocol (see Figure 1). More are scheduled in the very near future.
As the use of blockchain increases, the underlying technology needs to advance (for example
to provide improved scalability). This also requires all nodes running the software to upgrade
to the latest version of the protocol software. We strongly believe that the demand for
blockchain technology will lead to further hard fork attempts. This makes enterprise
blockchain use not only challenging but in some cases impossible for firms who need stable
IT.

Figure 1. ​Bitcoin blockchain forks to date

Another issue is high volatility in transaction fees. We have seen the 90-day average
per-transaction price [of Bitcoin] increase to $110.96 USD6. As of 18 March 2018 some 1,000
transactions were in the waiting pool to be included in the network. This volatility makes
business applications on blockchain unpredictable and unsustainable. Generally, businesses
do not like operational cost uncertainty, often rejecting promising new technologies as a
result.
6

B
​ lockchain Info. (2018). ​Average over 90 days from 2017.12.19 to 2018.03.18​. Available: https://www.blockchain.info

13

IT INTEGRATION DIFFICULTY
For several decades, enterprises of all sizes have been optimizing and transforming their
businesses through the use of digital technologies. This has often occurred in waves,
resulting in layers upon layers of different systems being tested and implemented. This in turn
has led to complex operations and workflows. Enterprise infrastructures therefore tend to
depend on a diverse range of technologies and processes.
Integrating a new disruptive technology such as blockchain into a traditionally complex (and
often proprietary) system can be very difficult, risky and costly. While open standards such as
Security Assertion Markup Language (“​SAML​”) or the web access delegation standard and
reference architecture for authentication (OATH) help, making a new IT system fully work with
widely used products such as Active Directory, Oracle or SAP is a hugely complex task.

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT DIFFICULTY
New technologies such as blockchain often introduce new programming frameworks and
languages. As the majority of enterprise developments tend to be project-focused, there is
little room for developers to experiment and to learn new languages and tools.
Some of these are complex to understand, such as Solidity. With Solidity, developers are
able to write applications that implement self-enforcing business logic embodied in smart
contracts, leaving a non-refutable and authoritative record of the transaction. In our opinion,
many firms simply do not have the software developer flexibility or capability to use these kind
of new languages.
Companies often use part-time contractors to deliver IT project work. Many of these
contractors are unlikely to want to pick up and learn a new language for a project. If these
tasks are “outsourced”, we believe it would be unwise to entirely rely on an external third
party to write and codify the blockchain important business logic and rules.
We are of the view that instead of forcing developers to learn new languages to create smart
contracts, we believe that enterprise blockchain should be easy enough to understand and to
program. This would allow developers to leverage their existing expertise and experience with
familiar toolchains (such as C++, Golang, JavaScript and Python).
SQL is also a very well understood and widely accepted language for programming and
managing data - yet it appears to be almost forgotten in some blockchain implementations.

PRIVACY ISSUES
The business community has a stronger requirement for data privacy than is currently
provided by public blockchains. While one way to achieve data privacy and improved security
on public blockchain is to implement an encryption and decryption layer at the application
level, enterprise blockchain implementations often need to provide a more robust, holistic
approach for securing data, particularly where it involves sensitive and/or legally protected
information.

14

As an example, a new and more stringent GDPR standard will be imposed and come into
force in May 2018 across Europe. This will require that companies, including those that use
blockchain (for their business), consider data privacy related issues in the design of systems
by implementing security and data-privacy by design, and not as an afterthought.

SCALABILITY PROBLEMS
Many of the current blockchains are adequate for dealing with simple scalability. However, we
believe that in many large-scale use cases, businesses need IT systems that can
automatically deal with more demand from gradual or even sudden demand from the user(s)
of the service.
This demand may require more immediate local computer resources, in what is called a
vertically scaled-up system (for example more local memory, storage, computing, or network
capacity for a specific high-throughput task). An example could be a business transaction that
needs to be executed in the shortest time possible (e.g. secure the price of a stock traded on
a regulated exchange at a specific moment in time).
Where there is a sudden peak in user demand, this requires the IT infrastructure to
immediately add extra computer resources across a distributed system to share the extra
load (in what is termed a horizontal scale-out system). An example here could be an
immediate huge demand across the internet to purchase tickets for a just-announced and
in-demand event (e.g. a new extra date is announced for a concert that has already sold-out
for one of the world’s most popular pop groups).

INTEROPERABILITY CONSTRAINTS
Even though the market is still currently in its infancy, there are over 100 different public
blockchain protocols being used - primarily supporting Bitcoin and the many other crypto
“altcoins”. At the same time there are also at least 200 custom developed private blockchains
developed and used by large enterprise companies. Each one of these implementations of
blockchain is different. This reduces the possible benefits from economies of scale across
these many diverse use cases.
As the market develops and matures (as was witnessed with cloud computing over the past
ten years, and before that with Linux, another open source project), we predict that many of
these blockchain implementations will disappear through lack of mass adoption. Others will
continue to exist in smaller and specialist use-cases only. The most successful projects will
eventually integrate with one another to form larger blockchain “ecosystems” and platforms.
We believe that the majority of future innovation in and around blockchain (as well as its
mass adoption) will likely evolve around public ecosystems and not private blockchains.
Each of the resulting blockchain platforms and ecosystems will require specialist tools, IT
integration know-how and deployment skills. Most firms will struggle to keep up with being
able to deal with this interoperability and the manageability of the many variant private
blockchains.
15

As mentioned earlier, it is very challenging to combine and work with public and private
blockchains. Especially as this results in degrading performance and losing important
characteristics from either system (the trust vs. performance paradox).

16

AERGO, the blockchain fuel for autonomous business
AERGO is a revolutionary concept and open source project.

AERGO PLATFORM
AERGO seeks to leverage and extend both public and private blockchains, supported by
modern cloud architectures. We hope to create a technology and operational framework that
supports an ecosystem of (dApp) developers, curated cloud delivery partners, and enterprise
companies.
In short, we aim to create a platform that allows each party to create innovative and trusted
business services.
AERGO intends to be a distributed modern ecosystem built around a high-performance,
secure and easy to use public blockchain (that we call AERGO Chain).
Some of the key features of AERGO are depicted in Figure 2 that follows.

Figure 2​. Key features of AERGO

Just like the development, evolution and adoption of “hybrid cloud” over the past 10 years,
AERGO intends to facilitate the creation of hybrid blockchain based products and business
models.
AERGO proposes to use state-of-the-art technology that is implemented and manifested as a
simple to use practical blockchain protocol. This protocol is intended to be designed so that it
can be used in any combination of (i) a public, (ii) a private or (iii) a combined public plus
private blockchain architecture configuration. This is depicted in Figure 3 below.
AERGO aims to become the de facto enterprise blockchain. One that bridges the gap
between both public and private networks. A platform that uses core blockchain technology
and deployment blueprints that have already been proven in real-life in-production systems
across the world by Blocko7.

7

​ Blocko has successfully delivered 23 in-production blockchain systems (for 20 companies) supporting over 25 million users
17

AERGO also aims to provide and support a developer friendly, feature-rich, multi-paradigm
and consistent plugin-based smart contract infrastructure for programming each business
implementation.
Making “design”, “deployment”, “usage” and “management” are key design principles for the
AERGO project. Making things easy is not simple. This is especially true for blockchain today.

Figure 3. ​ AERGO bridges the Public and Private blockchain worlds for Enterprise IT

AERGO intends to combine the practicality and innovation of public blockchains, with the
performance and security provided by private blockchains.
Just as with cloud computing, we hope to develop the technology to enable companies to
develop and run their (dApp) applications on a secure public infrastructure. When needed,
these companies will be able to easily and seamlessly migrate some (or even all) of these
applications to a more high-performance private blockchain.
All of this and without losing any of the benefits of their previous public blockchain model
implementation.
To enable such a comprehensive hybrid blockchain architecture, innovative technologies and
a novel data bridging framework (proxy) are required to make these different types of system
work together. The bridging proxy would allow bi-directional communication between multiple
public and private blockchain networks.
The ability to develop, compile and embed smart contracts into such a diverse architecture
will also be required. This also needs to be supported by a very high-performance and
efficient virtual machine engine for future and more comprehensive smart contract
development.
This principle is depicted in the illustrative diagram below.

18

Figure 4.​ ​AERGO ecosystem network illustrating public and each private chain bridged

AERGO: SUMMARY ARCHITECTURE
AERGO intends to leverage and build upon Blocko’s existing COINSTACK platform, which is
a fully supported enterprise product that has been adopted by many of its existing clients.
AERGO aims to provide a complete framework for developing, orchestrating and deploying
dApps on secure and high-performance cloud architectures.
Blocko will also help to cultivate a technology and supporting partner “ecosystem”.
The key stakeholders in the AERGO ecosystem include any type of business wishing to use
blockchain and their developers; as well as the IT contractors, infrastructure and service
providers that provide value-adding services.
AERGO also intends to support open source developers who wish to use, develop, incubate
and extend core features and projects within the AERGO technology stack. AERGO
proposes not only be open-source friendly, it will ​be​ open source.
Attracting new ideas and projects to extend the value and utility of the AERGO ecosystem is
a key principle for this initiative. The ecosystem partners will include special programs to
support teams and research projects to enable these innovations.
The core elements of AERGO are shown below. Together these elements form the AERGO
platform.

19

Figure 5. ​AERGO core elements

(I) AERGO CHAIN:​ a ​public internet of blockchains.
AERGO Chain is a proposed new protocol consisting of a global public decentralized network
of enterprise blockchains run by node providers.
It intends to contain ​AERGOSQL​, a new canonical smart contract engine to easily create
advanced smart contracts to enable innovative business products and services.
In summary, AERGO Chain can conceptually be considered to be an open source blockchain
operating system.
AERGO HUB​:​ ​the ​public interface into the underlying AERGO Chain

(II)

AERGO Hub aims to work with and connects secure dApps with AERGO Chain.The dApps
that are created are intended to be stored in one of two repositories:
●

AERGO Public Repository, is a shared, open and decentralized underlying
infrastructure for dApps (similar to GIT public repositories that is used to host open
source projects, or automated build servers for public cloud computing)

●

AERGO Private Repository, is a controlled, secure and private infrastructure for
dApps. This aims to achieve access control, application security and performance,
data compliance, as well as quality of service (“​QoS​”)8 that are required for enterprise
IT systems

Both types of repositories inherit the industry tested implementation frameworks and API
compatibility of COINSTACK, proven with clients across the globe.

W
​ ikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. (2018).​ Quality of service.​ Available:
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Quality_of_service&oldid=836944975
8

20

These dApps (as well as other supporting software, computing resources and services that
are optimized for blockchain) need to be orchestrated, provisioned, deployed and managed to
be used on AERGO Chain.
This is intended to be achieved through ​AERGO HORDE​: a public orchestration9,
management and software framework for infrastructure providers who want to participate in
the AERGO Hub ecosystem. For example: blockchain “node providers” or software vendors.
In summary, AERGO Hub is conceptually very similar to techniques found in current public
cloud web services.
(III) AERGO MARKETPLACE​: ​a proposed one stop shop for software applications,
computing​ ​resources and other services​ optimized for AERGO Chain
●

AERGO Marketplace software, computing and other services are intended to run on
or work with AERGO Chain as part the ecosystem that supports the AERGO Platform

●

These partner services are accessed via the AERGO Hub public interface

●

These services are intended to be managed via AERGO Horde

AERGO - DETAILED FUNCTIONS AND CAPABILITIES
The following section describes in more detail the technical capabilities of the above (as well
as other related) key functions within the AERGO Platform.
While this may be overly technical for some readers, we hope that by at least outlining these
core functions some of the unique and innovative capabilities of AERGO are appreciated.
For more detailed information see the detailed AERGO Technical White Paper available at
www.AERGO.io​.

Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. (2018). ​Orchestration (computing)​. Available:
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Orchestration_(computing)&oldid=831362994
9

21

AERGO CHAIN
AERGO Chain intends to be a public blockchain protocol designed to mitigate issues
currently found on public blockchains. AERGO Chain intends to deploy a
delegated-proof-of-stake (“​DPOS​”)10 governance model. It also intends to implement a novel
score based autonomous delegation algorithm to enhance reliability and quality of service
(“​QoS​”).
The AERGO Chain aims to feature an SQL based smart contract platform to increase
usability. This is perhaps one of the most critical components in solving a number of major
and current integration difficulties with blockchain.
We believe that an enterprise focused
features such as distributed version
backbone of how users will create
Collectively these new features will
blockchains.

blockchain protocol layer needs to include advanced
control and concurrency control. These form the
public and especially private dApp repositories.
help to enhance the privacy of future enterprise

A new parallel processing capability of smart contracts seeks to allow AERGO Chain to
handle millions of transactions per second. AERGO is intended to be designed for optimal
scale-up and scale-out of blockchain networks, to suit the demand of a wide range of
products and services running on a blockchain. We believe it will also be capable of engaging
and utilising a parallel throughput networking fabric, as well as supporting a multi-thread
architecture for multi-core and ultra-fast cached memory computer environments.
Many of the techniques being developed for AERGO Chain are based on core capabilities
from Blocko’s COINSTACK operating system, coupled with their learnings from building
in-production systems for large enterprise clients on their existing computer networks and in
their secure and private data centres.

CONSENSUS ALGORITHM
Perhaps one of the most defining and important characteristic of a blockchain is the chosen
consensus algorithm. A consensus algorithm is the key program that verifies that a block that
is to be added to a blockchain is the real version.
Without a consensus algorithm, any actor could potentially add information to the blockchain,
derailing the legitimacy of the entire system.
Whilst these consensus algorithms involve complex mathematics and logic (and are perhaps
beyond the scope of the reader), it is important to at least understand the basics of the
selected model that is being developed for the high-performance AERGO platform.

M
​ ycryptopedia. (2017). ​Delegated Proof-of-Stake (DPoS) Explained.​ Available:
https://www.mycryptopedia.com/delegated-proof-stake-dpos-explained/
10

22

We therefore provide a simple description of the most relevant and associated technologies
in the next sections. Further information on DTT can be found in the AERGO Technical
Whitepaper.
AERGO Chain supports various consensus algorithms and allows its users to define and
choose a consensus algorithm to best meet their business requirements. However, the
fundamental and default choice consensus algorithm for AERGO is proposed to be
Delegated Proof of Stake (“​DPOS​”).
We believe this algorithm class provides enhanced scalability coupled with an economical
operational model. In addition the AERGO DPOS algorithm will aim to promote and support
businesses and important blockchain node providers to participate in the network.
This will help the long-term viability, efficiency and sustainability of the overall network.
Proof of Work
There is widespread belief in the blockchain community (public articles and other sources of
reference) that Proof of Work (“​POW​”) is the most genuine and useful consensus algorithm
for blockchain. The benefits of POW are that it is concise, easy to understand and it has the
potential to be the most democratic consensus method.
However, POW has a few very serious drawbacks.
POW may allow power and control to end up in the hands of a few large miners. We also
believe network predictability, stability and sustainability are a fundamental requirement for
businesses. They are major contributing factors for operational QoS in large-scale
IT-systems.
Public blockchains designed for business will have to eliminate the possibility that external
forces could impair both QoS and place control in the hands of fewer (or perhaps bad) actors.
Proof of Stake
Various algorithms are emerging around Proof of Stake (“​POS​”), including potential
developments in the Ethereum platform. Some of this work is still not settled or even
implemented. Many efforts are currently under way to solve some of the most important
technical issues involving POS (such as the nothing-at-stake).
However, we believe, POS itself is unlikely to become a mainstream consensus method, until
it addresses certain challenges, such as branches happening or so-called ‘coin slashing’. For
example, if an error (or bug) breaks a POS rule, it will cause so-called coin slashing and thus
create a very undesirable hard fork of the blockchain.
Hard-forks on public networks directly impact network reliability. They can also significantly
increase the security risk of operating businesses that run on, or that are linked to, a public
network. Figure 1 depicted earlier on page 13 of this report shows prior forks in Bitcoin.

23

Delegated Proof of Stake
Delegated Proof of Stake (“​DPOS​”) is an alternative and promising consensus algorithm.
DPOS is a progressive and network (energy) efficient model that has been used by a number
of high-profile blockchain projects (such as EOS, Steem and BitShares).
It promotes decentralization (as it does not require huge, specialized - often concentrated computer mining farms). DPOS also provides benefits for network stakeholders help to
ensure that bad actors are removed from the network. This combined social and
technological form of democratization recognizes valuable participants and supports good
behavior in the network.
In effect it’s a self-monitoring and positive-promoting model.
We believe DPOS is both easy to understand and less likely to create hard forks. We also
believe that acting as a participating node in a network where participants are enterprises and
infrastructure providers reduces the possibility of hard-forks even further.
The important requirement for business process QoS would also be greatly enhanced.
In summary, POW provides purely economic incentives only. In contrast DPOS seeks to
combine economic incentives with social consensus and has been chosen for AERGO.

SMART CONTRACT
AERGO Chain aims to support a well-tested and easy to use multi-paradigm smart contract
infrastructure. It includes the Ethereum Virtual Machine. This hybrid approach provides useful
interoperability between different types of smart contract operations.

AERGOSQL
AERGOSQL is the term given to smart contracts operating on and within AERGO Chain.
AERGOSQL seeks to offer a relational data model for storing and accessing data and
SQL-like scripting language for writing smart contracts.
We strongly believe that this new approach - based on traditional, well understood, and easy
to use SQL technology - will enable the mass market of developers and business users to
benefit from blockchain.
A simple indicative example of the resulting coding model can be seen in the extract below.

24

Figure 6. ​ ​AERGOSQL Coding model extract

For maximum performance, AERGOSQL intended to adopt advanced innovative
technologies, such as a LLVM compiler infrastructure (providing intelligent JIT compilation11)
and a high-performance b-tree data structure implementation (such as open source
WiredTiger12 for data storage).
Smart contract execution is a utility within AERGO (and is denominated as a native digital
asset on AERGO Chain). It is proposed that smart contract execution (including the
computing power needed for this task) in AERGO will be consumed as a running cost.

BRANCHING AND MERGING
One of the most complicated concepts involved in distributed version control systems, is the
process of merging branches. For blockchain (that must deal with real-time data) merging is
even more difficult to achieve.

W
​ ikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. (2018). ​LLVM​. Available:
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=LLVM&oldid=841209654
12
M
​ ichael Cahill. (2015).​ A Technical Introduction to WiredTiger​. Available:
https://www.mongodb.com/presentations/a-technical-introduction-to-wiredtiger
11

25

Due to its non-destructive process, we believe branching in AERGO will be a simple and
straightforward process. However, merging requires two different approaches:
(I) Automated Merging
○

By default, Automatic Merging is the expected process for merging two
branches. Automatic Merging is similar to a block-reorganization process in
blockchains. In this case, the merging source's blocks are dissolved into
transactions and absorbed in the merging target's merging-pool. Ultimately,
the merging pool results in a new block attached to the merging target's best
block. In the process, transactions inconsistent with the merging target branch
are automatically excluded from the new block.

(II) Consistent Merging
○

Consistent Merging happens only when a branch is created with the specified
consistent merging logic. Consistent merging is similar to the merge
functionality provided by version control systems such as Git13. Unlike
automatic merging (which discards inconsistent transactions by default),
consistent merging relies on the predefined conflict resolution logic to manage
inconsistent transactions. The conflict resolution logic is implemented as a
system-level smart contract.

We believe AERGO Chain will provide both friendly syntax and semantics for users
accustomed to version control systems such as Git. Such functionalities can be accessed
through the AERGO CLI client, as well as RPC (Remote Procedure Call) APIs.
AERGO Chain aims to be developer friendly. It seeks to allow developers to use
technologies, tools and methods that are familiar and well understood.

CONCURRENCY CONTROL
Concurrency control is a critical function for blockchain networks. It ensures the DPOS
consensus algorithm is deterministic (i.e. being entirely predictable) when delegates within a
blockchain network schedule the important block creation transactions.
AERGO Chain will aim to provide two mechanisms for transaction serialization. These are (i)
block-level serialization and (ii) pool-level serialization.
(I) Block-level serialization

13

○

Since each branch of blockchain consists of a series of blocks, the
transactions can be serialized by stacking one block after another.

○

AERGO intends to provide Multi Version Concurrency Control (MVCC) which
are based on block heights. Once a branch and block height are specified, it is

W
​ ikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. (2018). ​Git.​ Available: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Git&oldid=841769346

26

therefore possible to provide consistent reads across different nodes in the
repository.
○

AERGO's MVCC functionality intends to provide both a snapshot isolation that
is used for consistent reads and a form of optimistic locking, through row or
document versioning. MVCC only works for block-level serialization.

(II) Pool-level serialization
○

Persons accessing AERGO nodes can take advantage of the deterministic
nature of the scheduled creation of blocks by delegates. This is a
characteristic provided by the core DPOS consensus. It allows for execution of
synchronous transactions, providing a strong guarantee on transaction finality.

○

Since each delegated node in an AERGO network can apply uniform
serialization ordering to process new transactions into the memory pool and
create new blocks, clients do not have to wait for block interval completion to
retrieve the result of transactions. As a result, the latency of executing a
transaction decreases from seconds to milliseconds.

Pool-level serialization is depicted in the diagram below.

Figure 7.​ Pool Level Serialization in AERGO Chain

27

PARALLELISM
Performance in AERGO is intended to be maximised by a combination of transaction and
block-level parallel processing.
The performance of a blockchain system primarily depends on:
(i) the efficiency of creating and sharing new blocks; and
(ii) the time it takes for each node to process the new blocks.
The entire distributed consensus protocol is involved in the block creation process of
blockchain. While distributed consensus protocols have been studied (and are under the
spotlight for various blockchain projects) we are of the view that the actual block creation
process of each node in existing systems is often poorly designed and implemented.
Underperforming nodes are sometimes acceptable in public consumer-grade blockchain
implementations (such as in Bitcoin and Ethereum). However, an enterprise-grade blockchain
like AERGO, requires more robust performance. Ideally this should be near real-time. As a
result, each node needs to be carefully implemented just as effectively and efficiently as with
the consensus protocol itself.
AERGO Chain intends to introduce the concept of parallelism to various stages of the
processing of blocks to maximise system performance.
Parallelism in a blockchain system involves the careful analysis and understanding of the
dependencies between transactions included in each block. It also requires an efficient
architecture, such as those inspired by a Staged Event-Driven Architecture (“​SEDA​”)14.
This (important) form of parallelism is depicted in the diagram that follows.

​ Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. (2018)​. Staged event-driven architecture.​ Available:
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Staged_event-driven_architecture&oldid=812633632
14

28

Figure 8.​ AERGO Parallelism

Dependency Analysis
Dependency analysis is a key factor that aims to enable AERGO’s parallel processing
capabilities.
AERGO aims to perform a dependency analysis among the transactions and blocks, to
create a data structure of the execution order. It measures the deterministic results within the
state machines affected by transactions. The data structure format is called Deterministic
Transaction Tree (“​DTT​”). Further information on DTT can be found in the AERGO Technical
Whitepaper.

29

AERGO FILE SYSTEM
AERGO’s own unique File System (“​AERGOFS​”) seeks to further enhance AERGO’s
scalability, especially in regards to scale-out and scale-up IT systems mentioned earlier.
AERGOFS intends to operate much like a modern day distributed file system. It aims to
provide structured and unstructured data storage capability for AERGO Chain. Unlike the
Hadoop distributed file system (“​HDFS​”)15 with its chunked data storage, AERGOFS is
intended to service a very large number of files.
AERGOFS is based on Facebook’s Haystack16 technology.
It is our design aim that AERGO Chain will support and enable its developers and users with
adequate permissions to access the underlying ledger data by providing easy-to-use Git-like
private repositories.
This is an important capability for developers.

DOMAIN-BASED PARTITIONING
Domain-based partitioning is the most basic strategy to secure scalability for AERGO.
Domain partitioning seeks to be achieved through the distributed version control functionality
of AERGO.
Unlike conventional blockchain implementations, AERGO proposes to be able to freely fork
and merge its data through branches. This is referred to as distributed version control (​DVC)​.
As a result, the distributed ledger can be partitioned both logically and physically through
different repositories.
Such an approach has already been used successfully by other established distributed
version controls (such as with Git or Mercurial). For instance, the widely deployed Github
system is able to host tens of millions of repositories.
However, the effectiveness of domain-based partitioning is primarily dependent on the
structure and usage of the data. When a single repository needs to handle an unbounded
expansion of data, partitioning data through branching is very difficult.
As a result, AERGO aims to utilize additional scalability approaches and capabilities through
the use of the AERGO File System (AERGOFS) and of AERGO Hub.

DISTRIBUTED DIRECTORY
Distributed directory (“​DD​”) is a core functionality that is intended to be used as a building
block within the AERGO implementation.
15

I​ BM. (2018). ​Apache Hadoop Distributed File System​. Available: https://www.ibm.com/analytics/hadoop/hdfs.

P
​ eter Vajgel. (2009). ​Needle in a haystack: efficient storage of billions of photos.​ Available:
https://code.facebook.com/posts/685565858139515/needle-in-a-haystack-efficient-storage-of-billions-of-photos/
16

30

Each DD in a repository manages an independent and isolated namespace. Each
namespace in turn contains information about different branches and tags residing in the
repository, as well as the validity of various identifiers on the blockchain.
Each DD is a blockchain on its own, with its own genesis block and the best block. Unlike
conventional blocks, DD blocks are limited in size with a relatively long creation interval
between them. In addition, as DDs are used for managing metadata, they need to be
compact.
In terms of its role and functionality, DD is comparable to data dictionaries in databases,
zookeeper for Hadoop, or etcd for CoreOS17.
In summary, ​AERGO Chain​ intends to be a powerful​ ​public internet of blockchains

L
​ awrence Hecht. (2018).​ CoreOS, Red Hat and Kubernetes Competition.​ Available:
https://thenewstack.io/coreos-red-hat-kubernetes-competition/
17

31

AERGO REPOSITORIES - PUBLIC & PRIVATE
AERGO Chain aims to support the creation of public and private repositories “out-of-the box’.
Repositories are a form of a code hosting platform for developers. They contain the actual
software program code that is being developed for a project. They are also used for version
control and collaboration. Repositories allow developers and others to work together on new
projects from anywhere. In effect, repositories manage a project, or a set of files, as they
change over time.
Repositories are actually the smallest forms of blockchains on AERGO Chain. A repository
can effectively be either a private blockchain; or it can be a public blockchain that function
independently of AERGO Chain.
Both public and private repositories in AERGO are free to use. Access to the repositories is
established and controlled by the entity that creates them. Typically public repositories are
open to anyone identified in the public network. Private repositories are only accessible to
developers and users that are allowed into the specific private network.
This is depicted in the diagram below.

Figure 9. ​AERGO Public and Private Repositories

AERGO PUBLIC REPOSITORY
The AERGO Public Repository aims to be a shared, open and a decentralized underlying
infrastructure for dApps (much like a public repository in GIT that is used to host open source
projects, and automated build servers, for public cloud computing).
It is open for reading and writing, or alternatively it may even selectively grant permissions to
anonymous users. A common configuration is to create an AERGO Public Repository as
read-only anonymous access.

32

AERGO PRIVATE REPOSITORY
The AERGO Private Repository, aims to be a controlled, secure and private infrastructure for
dApps. This assures full access control, application security and performance, data
compliance, as well as QoS all of which are necessary for enterprise IT systems.
AERGO Private Repository assures full access control for both reading and writing within the
repository (only users with the right permission can work in these repositories). By creating a
new branch from a remote parent branch, users can keep newly created blocks in a private
branch that are isolated from the public. Only if permission is granted to the specific
repository housing the branch, are users able to access the blocks within the respective
repository.
AERGO also enables important GIT-like data models and command structures; this allows
functions such as free branching out, or merging of blocks.
Within each repository, it is proposed that different branches can point to a different snapshot
of the content in the blockchain, in order to create a specific status. New branches can also
be created.
Finally, the concept of “best chain” in AERGO is analogous to the master branch.
Both types of repositories (public and private) inherit the industry tested implementation
frameworks and API compatibility of COINSTACK (Blocko’s fully supported enterprise
product and industry tested API framework).
Branching and merging in AERGO is depicted below.

Figure 10. ​Branching and Merging

In order to create and connect to AERGO Public Repositories and Private Repositories, the
users leverage features and services within AERGO Hub.

33

AERGO HUB
AERGO HUB is proposed to be the public interface, through which enterprise companies and
dApp developers access computing power to run their business or applications on.
AERGO Hub intends to connect and work with dApps in the AERGO Chain. The dApps are
created and stored in either of the two repositories described earlier. AERGO HUB aims to be
similar in nature to current proven public cloud web services (such as Amazon AWS).
These offer a number of advanced capabilities (depicted in Figure 11 below), such as:
1)

support for software microservices;

2)

a content delivery network (“​CDN​”)18;

3)

a serverless database;

4)

interfaces for smart oracles (to connect a blockchain with separate data sources such
as a separate database); and

5)

a smart gateway to intelligently route data traffic / messages into a blockchain

Figure 11. ​AERGO Hub Functional Illustration

In summary, ​AERGO Hub​ ​is the proposed public interface into AERGO Chain

W
​ ikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. (2018). Content delivery network. Available:
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Content_delivery_network&oldid=841886968
18

34

AERGO Horde
AERGO dApps (as well as all other supporting software, computing resources and services
that are optimized for blockchain) need to be orchestrated, provisioned, deployed and
managed to be of use.
It is our intention to achieve this through ​AERGO Horde​. This is a public orchestration
management and software framework for infrastructure and other third party providers who
want to participate in the AERGO Hub ecosystem. For example: blockchain “node providers”
or software vendors.
These providers will need to install AERGO Horde in order to act and host as a node (in
effect this allows them to “connect” their services to the AERGO ecosystem). AERGO Horde
will be an open source, public-domain software project.
AERGO Horde is provided with its own specialised operating system for manageability and
efficiency called ​AERGO OS​.
This provides certain interfaces and components that interact and work with an embedded
and high-performance Linux Kernel and associated services (as illustrated in the diagram
below).

Figure 12. ​AERGO OS Architecture

With AERGO OS, we believe that a node provider will be able to perform a number of very
useful system-level tasks, such as check node information, monitor resource usability, and
the produced block information.
35

AERGO MARKETPLACE
AERGO Marketplace proposes to be a ​one stop shop for software applications, computing
resources and other services optimized for AERGO Chain
The AERGO Marketplace software, computing and other services are intended to be
compatible and run on or work with AERGO Chain.
It is proposed the AERGO Marketplace will be accessed via the AERGO Hub public interface
and managed via AERGO Horde.
This flow is depicted in the diagram that follows.

Figure 13. ​AERGO Marketplace Illustration

We propose to enable third parties, such as service providers, independent software vendors
and cloud infrastructure vendors, so that they can make their products and services available
to users of AERGO.
The end-users of AERGO will be software developers, and all types and size of businesses
wishing to build, manage and run a blockchain project
Whilst similar in nature to traditional cloud marketplaces, it is our aim to ensure AERGO
Marketplace significantly lowers the barriers to entry for its users. This includes individual
software developers, IT contractors and companies (from small SMBs to large multinational
enterprise firms).
We also plan to provide support for national and regional government agencies, who may
36

wish to use AERGO to solve specific problems. An example of this is to provide a secure and
anonymous citizen voting system based on blockchain (just as has already been
implemented by Blocko with COINSTACK for a regional local government province in South
Korea).
AERGO Marketplace will operate as a business and partner ecosystem. We plan to provide a
wide range of digital capabilities that can be used to develop and deploy innovative
blockchain solutions.
The Platform intends to support public, secure private and hybrid blockchain deployment
models.
Examples of the digital capabilities that, over time, will be made available in the AERGO
Marketplace include, may include:
● Computing Power (CPU)
● Storage (scalable - ultra fast), Solid-State Memory
● Content Delivery Network (CDN)
● Machine Learning Algorithms
● Digital Content (new algorithms and new software microservices)
● Specialised databases
● Smart Contract and Smart Oracle (templates)
● Blockchain IT integration blueprints
● Digital Identity blueprints
● Document Time Stamping (DTS blueprints)
● AERGO blockchain Training
The AERGO Platform will plan to consider including other modules and welcome new ideas
from parties interested in engaging and cooperating with the AERGO ecosystem.
In summary, we aim to make the AERGO Marketplace a vibrant, open and sustainable
ecosystem. A marketplace full of new technologies and innovations; whether these are
provided from single developers or large software vendors.
These services will be promoted and hopefully employed to power the next generation of
business running on a secure blockchain. The underlying IT architecture will also be based
on a low cost distributed utility computing deployment model.

37

AERGO Token​ ​ [NATIVE BLOCKCHAIN ASSET AND TOKEN MODEL]
AERGO Token ​(“​AERGO Token​”) is the proposed utility token to operate on the AERGO
platform. It aims to serve a multitude of different functions. The AERGO Token is broadly
speaking intended to be the medium of exchange within the AERGO ecosystem.
These tokens aim to grant the holder the right to certain services available within the AERGO
ecosystem.
More specifically, it is intended that the tokens are used for:
●

running the smart contract (AERGOSQL);

●

DPOS consensus algorithm

●

payment method for Blocko’s technical support on Coinstack 4.0;

●

payment method for AERGO Hub services;

●

payment method for services and assets on AERGO Marketplace; and

●

payment method for the AERGO domain

AERGO Tokens are also intended to be transferable within the platform.
The AERGO Main-net is expected to go live in early 2019 (the current target release date
being 1Q 2019).
It is intended that initially, holding AERGO Tokens can be used to access and purchase
products and services on COINSTACK V4.0 (the latest proven enterprise blockchain
platform release from Blocko).
The circulation and use of AERGO Token is depicted in the illustrative example below.

Figure 14. ​ ​AERGO native asset circulation
38

TOKEN DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF FUNDS
TOKEN SUPPLY
A total of 500,000,000 AERGO Tokens will be issued.
The allocation and use of tokens will be in accordance with the table set out below, but is
subject to change.

Proportion of Tokens for Sale

30%

AERGO community incentives and strategic partners

30%

Reserved by token issuer

25%

Advisors and key backers

10%

Employees of token issuer and affiliates

5%

USE OF PROCEEDS
The proceeds from the tokens for sale are intended to be used to develop and advance the
technology programs and partner ecosystem development aspects of AERGO.
A breakdown of the proposed proceeds is depicted in the following table, but is subject to
change.

R&D

40%

Ecosystem incubation

30%

Marketing

15%

Strategic alliances and business development

10%

Miscellaneous

5%

39

DEVELOPMENT ROADMAP
The proposed roadmap and release schedule for the AERGO Chain; AERGO HUB and
AERGO Marketplace build-out is depicted in the following diagram.

​Figure 15.​ ​AERGO Development roadmap
This roadmap is subject to change.
It may also be influenced by specific early-tester and early-adopter enterprise customers who
have already expressed an interest in using AERGO. This may result in certain capabilities
being released earlier (or later) than the above plan suggests.

40

EXECUTION PLAN
We recognize that the AERGO Project has very ambitious long-term goals. However,
frequent releases of key parts of the AERGO Platform are intended to be announced. Already
significant components are under advanced development.
As part of the overall program for AERGO and to kick-start the project, we intend to use and
leverage the following components from Blocko:
BLOCKO COINSTACK AND BLOCKO KNOW-HOW CONTRIBUTION
Blocko proposes to contribute a number of its existing products, services and know-how to
the AERGO Platform. It will also leverage some of its existing customers who have expressed
an interest in AERGO’s future capabilities.
These (Blocko based) contributions are expected to include:
➢ COINSTACK AS A KEY INITIAL FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENT OF THE AERGO
PROTOCOL
It is our intention that the AERGO protocol will inherit some of its key and proven
functionalities (such as APIs which are intended to be backwards compatible).
➢ PROVEN ENTERPRISE DEPLOYMENT MODELS
Being able to provide secure and data-privacy-compliant deployment frameworks (e.g.
proven and tested use-cases) are important for AERGO, if it is to be tested and adopted by
future enterprise clients.
Blocko will share a number of these production-tested deployment frameworks with the
AERGO and its users.
➢ BLOCKO’S EXISTING (AND FUTURE) ENTERPRISE CUSTOMERS
Blocko has to date secured over 20 paying customers and has implemented even more
production systems based on its COINSTACK version of blockchain.
Blocko proposes to approach its existing clients to present AERGO as an enhancement to
their existing deployments. This will be especially useful to those firms that originally moved
away from connecting to public blockchains due to lack of operational control and privacy
concerns.

41

➢ BLOCKO TO MARKET AND DIRECTLY SUPPORT AERGO BASED
IMPLEMENTATIONS
Blocko proposes to present and actively sell AERGO as a preferred open protocol that it can
configure and connect to its own COINSTACK solution for clients. It will also directly support
enterprise deployments of AERGO based products and services.
➢ BLOCKO AS A STRATEGIC TECHNOLOGY PARTNER FOR THE AERGO
Blocko intends to provide technology development, as well and direct technical support, to
AERGO.
AERGO will also benefit from Blocko’s leading edge and industry in-production proven
Research and Development and IT integration and support capabilities (currently based out
of South Korea, Hong Kong and London). Blocko continues to expand globally and intends to
operate in many other countries and regions of the world.
➢ BLOCKO’S EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE AND BLOCKCHAIN PARTNERS
Blocko will assist in helping to create the AERGO ecosystem. A number of its technology
partners have expressed a desire to engage with and to help initiate the AERGO ecosystem.
Examples include a specialist SQL development firm, a cloud infrastructure provider and
large international Telecommunications firm.
➢ OTHER SUPPORTING THIRD-PARTY ECOSYSTEM ACTIVITIES
New technology innovations, curated value-adding partners, supporting open source and
software developers are all critical elements of the AERGO ecosystem. Discovering and
working with these AERGO stakeholders (and their expansion) is a fundamental part of the
project.
This will also involve developing strategic, technology and IT service relationships in key
industrial and governmental sectors.
Reserving a significant portion of the funding is intended to be used to promote and develop
the above AERGO stakeholder ecosystem.
To support and help guide these efforts, the project has also secured the services of a highly
experienced advisory panel.
This panel contains some of the world’s leading experts in: blockchain, distributed databases,
utility computing, digital communications, cloud computing, big data, machine learning/AI,
virtualization, open source technology, open source licensing, computer programming,
security, open source business development, financial and investment banking, government
relations and strategic partner business development.
The AERGO Team can be seen in Appendix-D.

42

43

APPENDICES
APPENDIX-A: BLOCKCHAIN & OPEN PLATFORMS PRIMER
Bitcoin is to date perhaps the most well-known so called virtual crypto coin. It has gained a high
degree of attention amongst public and government regulators. This is due to its frequent use in
pseudonymous (sometimes illegal) transactions and its fluctuating value.
Bitcoin and the many other “altcoin” currencies that have appeared on the market are not the
focus of this AERGO paper, but rather the novel technology architecture that these coins run
and exist on is. This technology is blockchain.
At a very simplistic level, blockchain is just a database. A database that is both distributed (it
runs on multiple computers) and secure. Just like Linux or Hadoop​, public blockchains are also
open source; that is, the technology is not owned by any single software company and is
developed in an open and transparent process by developers around the world.
Blockchain is an ingenious technology that uses sophisticated cryptographic techniques and
intelligent (so called consensus algorithms) to ensure an autonomous method by which digital
transactions are approved and accepted within its ledger system. A consensus algorithm also
effects how transactions and data are shared and pushed out to the computers within the
blockchain network. Blockchain technology provides a tamper-proof version of the truth, so that
transactions recorded in its system can be trusted. This trust applies to parties that have little (or
indeed no) trust between them.
What is revolutionary is that blockchain operates as an intermediary and largely human free
system. Even though database technologies have been in use for over 50 years, this had never
been done before.
Blockchain-enabled systems are intended to allow for the creation of a single, universal,
trustworthy and completely indestructible register of digital assets and associated transactions.
The blockchain can be used to provide the basic services that are essential to any system where
there is an exchange of digital assets (or even simply data). It can do so in ways that are often
better and more efficient than the tools used today. For one, blockchain technology creates a
viable, decentralized record of cryptographically encoded transactions, the distributed ledger,
which allows the substitution of a traditional (and potentially less secure) master database for
large numbers of distributed ones. We believe this has the potential to lead to radical
simplification and cost reduction for large parts of many digital systems, while making them more
secure and reliable.
Blockchain technology also allows for the creation of digital assets or tokens, which can provide
a mechanism for direct and unambiguous transfer of value while keeping the advantages of
digital networks.
We also believe that blockchain technology offers a far better means of establishing and using
identity than what we use now. Identity can be stored cryptographically, with the ability for
individuals in a blockchain network to simultaneously authenticate their identities while protecting
their privacy.
44

By providing unique, non-forgeable identities, along with an inviolable record of their ownership,
the blockchain can potentially greatly simplify the direct transfer of physical assets and increase
confidence in their origin.
Programming capabilities of blockchains are enabled through so-called “smart contracts”. Smart
contracts are event-driven computer programs that possess the ability to take control of the
underlying unit of value. In short, they are programs designed to automate execution and
settlement of tasks. They are the application layer that allows dApp’s to unlock most of the value
from a blockchain system (see Figure-16 below).
Smart contracts enable businesses to incorporate the value of financial transactions or other
digital agreements into a form of cryptographically-assured business logic, giving it the ability to
execute and move value autonomously. In short, business tasks are encoded and embedded
securely within the blockchain itself - for auto-execution, auto-checking, auto-enforcement and
auto-recording.
Smart contracts are therefore written and then compiled directly into the blockchain i.e. they are
in effect embedded within the blockchain itself for this auto-execution to happen when called
upon.

Figure 16.​ Smart contracts19

E
​ verest Group. (2016). Smart Contracts: Realizing the Benefits of Blockchain. Available:
https://www.everestgrp.com/2016-10-smart-contracts-realizing-benefits-blockchain-36282.html/
19

45

Blockchains cannot access data outside of their self-contained networks. Therefore, an
important supplementary capability to smart contracts are so called “smart oracles”.
Smart oracles (in the context of blockchain) are external agents or programs that find and verify
real-world occurrences and submit this information to a blockchain to be used by the smart
contracts themselves. They provide external data and “trigger” the smart contracts. In effect
smart oracles are third-party “data feeds”. They supply this information in a secure and trusted
manner.
Smart oracles can in fact be software oracles, hardware oracles, consensus oracles and
inbound and outbound oracles. As these are third party services, extra care (and techniques) are
needed for these to be trusted.
Providing enterprise companies with trusted and secure information (when they use smart
contracts in systems they build on blockchain) is crucial to users of the system. Mistakes can
have serious consequences. Smart contracts execute autonomously and there is no so-called
rollback in blockchain (due to its core immutability characteristic).
In summary, smart oracles can be seen as the “interface” between real word data and smart
contracts. The overall blockchain information technology (“​IT​”) stack is depicted in Figure 17.

Figure 17.​ Blockchain IT Stack
46

Important functions of blockchain for business are depicted below in Figure-18.

Figure 18.​ Functions of blockchain for business

The key distinguishing features of the two forms of blockchain (i.e. public and private protocols)
include the level of trust and control in each system. Trust and control often vary depending on
the nature of the blockchain architecture and the software consensus algorithms being used.
Often increases in control can result in a decrease in decentralized trust, and vice versa.
Performance throughput is also becoming a serious issue for blockchain as deployments grow.
Public blockchains, like Bitcoin, provide the potential for maximum participation and increased
participation results in more computer “nodes” within the network. A larger network of nodes
running a blockchain consensus algorithm increases decentralised trust. However, control can
become a serious issue in this instance, if an entity gains a majority position over these
computer resources. Large blockchain networks running current generation protocols and
Proof-of-Work consensus algorithms are very inefficient. They draw a huge amount of energy to
run the nodes and validate new transactions. The distribution of transactions is also very slow
(especially for business-critical actions).
47

In private blockchains (such as Hyperledger Fabric) there is much more stringent control of
which parties (nodes) are part of the specific blockchain network. Throughput can be increased
by using state-of-the-art computers, memory and solid state disks; coupled with well-designed
network interfaces between the nodes. However this often results in lesser decentralized trust as
the networks tend to be much smaller in size than in public protocols. Newer and more
innovative consensus algorithms are required (Figure 19 depicts the two models).

Figure 19.​ Permissionless (Public) vs. Permissioned (Private) Blockchains

The decision on whether a business chooses a public or private blockchain will depend on a few
key considerations.
Such as a careful balancing act between
(i) the need to maximize trust in the transactions
(ii) control over the system and finally
(iii) overall performance throughput
For example, in banking - where trust and security are paramount - private blockchains are
being designed to replace existing databases and systems. This is depicted in the following
diagram.

48

Figure 20​. Example of blockchain network among banks

It is no wonder the market and customers are confused about which approach to back. This may
(in part) explain why there are yet to be many in-production and at-scale blockchain
deployments.
While blockchain is a great example of a peer-to-peer (“​P2P​”) implementation, it is not always
ideal for storing large amounts of data, due to:
(1) scalability: blockchains can be slow; and
(2) data protection: blockchain can create some data privacy related challenges (such as
the-right-to-be-forgotten), particularly where the data is not appropriately secured and/or not
subject to appropriate management access controls
These are areas currently undergoing much development in blockchain and where suitable
solutions are expected to be found in the coming years.
49

Despite the above, we strongly believe blockchain will be a driving force of the next generation
internet and the decentralized web. It can bring us true transactions without a middleman, with
Bitcoin as its first proven use case.
The same blockchain technology could allow companies in every industry to build new
decentralized services in more open business ecosystems.
OPEN PLATFORMS ARE THE FUTURE
The combination of innovative dApp’s, running on blockchain hosted on a serverless utility
computing architecture - combined with mass mobile adoption use of secure e-commerce
services - we believe will allow such “platforms” to transform many industries and business
models in the coming years.
One only has to look towards East-Asia to see the largest example of such an open, developer
and third-party friendly ecosystem - in the incredibly successful WeChat20 messenger
application.
Whilst not a reference model for blockchain per se, it is perhaps a reference model for how
future open ecosystems will be built and operated. More importantly it showcases how new
business value can be created when a modern digital platform (like AERGO) is open to users,
developers, merchants, 3​rd​ parties and businesses.
Introduced as a messaging app in 2011 by Tencent, WeChat has evolved into a lifestyle platform
for users in China. With 1 billion monthly active users, it now offers to its users what Facebook,
WhatsApp, Messenger, Venmo, Grubhub, Amazon, Uber, Apple Pay, offer together in the West.
WeChat has used strong user adoption to emerge as the one app that rules them all.
In the mobile-first world of China, WeChat has built a ‘mobile lifestyle’ that touches various
aspects of users’ lives, with an average user opening WeChat 10 times a day and spending
circa 40 minutes per day21 on the application. Initially launched as a pure messaging application
to send texts in 2011 by Tencent (one of the three Chinese tech giants : Baidu, Alibaba and
Tencent), it has evolved from just an ‘app’ to a ‘platform’.
WeChat has benefitted from very strong network effects - both direct and indirect - in the
Chinese mobile-first market. The more users they got onto the platform, the more other users
wanted to join in order to be connected with their friends and families. Many Asian American
people originally only got onto WeChat so they could remain connected with their relatives back
in China.
WeChat was smart to open up the platform to third-party developers, who started offering their
complementary or completely new services on the WeChat platform. Economies of scope effects
applied here, the more users on the platform, more and more third party developers wanted to
offer services on it, and vice versa.

T
​ ech Node. (2017). ​WeChat User & Business Ecosystem Report 2017.​ Available:
https://technode.com/2017/04/24/wechat-user-business-ecosystem-report-2017/
21
L
​ ily Kuo. (2014). ​WeChat is nothing like WhatsApp—and that makes it even more valuable.​ Available:
https://qz.com/179007/wechat-is-nothing-like-whatsapp-and-that-makes-it-even-more-valuable/
20

50

With such strong network effects and little, if any, need to connect to different applications or
services (i.e. a low so-called “multi-homing” environment), WeChat emerged as the app platform
or rather an ecosystem that rules them all.
The following list shows some of the incentives of WeChat for its users - as well as the
brands/merchants/third-party developers that engage within its ecosystem.
For users, Wechat provides one integrated app that allows them to:
●

Send text/voice messages to family and friends

●

Share things on social media

●

Follow celebrities and brands

●

Book a taxi

●

Order food delivery

●

Book a doctor appointment

●

Buy movie tickets

●

Play games

●

Transfer money to peers (red envelopes)

●

Pay bills — utility bills, restaurant bills, etc.

●

Find geo-targeted coupons

●

Read magazine articles

●

Meet strangers around them

For merchants/brands - Wechat provides one integrated app that allows them to drive user
engagement through making APIs for payments, location, direct messages, voice, user IDs etc.
available to these merchants.
Merchants also use WeChat as a CRM (customer relationship management) platform - to
distribute news and to offer tailor-made promotions. WeChat has over 10 million (authenticated)
official accounts including celebrities, banks, media outlets, and fashion brands to hospitals,
drug stores, car manufacturers, internet startups, personal blogs, and more.
The platform is also very developer friendly. They are not forced to stay within the standard look
and feel of WeChat so they can develop completely new differentiating services. The result is
users gets the full web-app experience, without ever leaving the WeChat platform. The total
annual lifestyle spending on WeChat was estimated to be $1.8 billion USD during 2014 (source:
Tencent), mainly driven by entertainment and official accounts.
The WeChat ecosystem can be seen in Figure-21.
Perhaps most importantly, WeChat does not charge a user to sign up on the platform - it’s
completely free for users. Furthermore, WeChat tries to ensure trust in the ecosystem by vetting
and authenticating all merchants that offer services on the platform.

51

Our understanding is that, the team behind WeChat, are now exploring how they could use
blockchain to build and add even more new secure value-adding services to their platform.
In a recent post to a WeChat module called "Moments" (or "Friends' Circle," on Chinese versions
of the platform), Ma Huateng (the CEO and Chairman of Chinese internet giant Tencent that is
behind WeChat) declared​, "​The time has come for a blockchain to decentralize a network."​ The
technology, he said, ​threatens to disrupt existing systems much like "the current TCP/IP, Packet
Switching was able to defeat the giants such as AT&T22".
A very informative article on this truly innovative open platform ecosystem has been written by
VC Andreessen Horowitz23.

S
​ ohu. (2018)​. Ma Huateng made friends and commented on physicists' views on blockchain.​ Available:
http://www.sohu.com/a/218207096_117373
23
C
​ onnie Chan. (2015). ​When One App Rules Them All: The Case of WeChat and Mobile in China​. Available:
https://a16z.com/2015/08/06/wechat-china-mobile-first/
22

52

APPENDIX-B: BLOCKCHAIN AND UTILITY COMPUTING
In the very near future, we believe the focus will move away from developers having to
understand complex programming languages and having to cater for complex IT architecture
management and operations. This will allow them to focus on application innovation and value
creation at the front end of the process; where applications touch and interact with the end-user
(and billions of future IoT devices in the coming years).
In this “serverless architecture” much of the IT complexity will be abstracted or simply hidden
from the developer and the end-user. This concept is important to understand to fully appreciate
this paper and one of the fundamental values that a future AERGO based system will provide.
Serverless architectures refer to applications that significantly depend on third-party IT services
(known as Backend as a Service (“​BaaS​”)) - or on custom code that’s run in so called software
containers (Function as a Service (“​FaaS​”)), such as with Amazon AWS Lambda. By moving
much behavior to the front-end of the process, this architecture reduces IT operational costs and
enhances the performance for the end user.
“Serverless” does not explicitly mean that an application is running without computer servers. It
means that the person who owns the system does not have to purchase the servers, does not
have to provision them or does not need any virtual machines to run the back-end application
code itself.
A typical three-tier web application (and that does not use a serverless architecture) is depicted
in the simple illustrative example below (Figure 22).

Figure 22.​ Example of “3-tier” web application

This architecture is composed of three different layers: the so-called (front-end) presentation
layer, business layer and the data access layer (often called IT back-end).
When an end-user performs any action on the presentation layer, it calls the business layer to
process the action (for example validation of an operation). It then calls the data access layer
which interacts with the database. That in turn gives back a response to the business layer
which then passes it back to the presentation layer (that is, the actual user interface).
This cycle is typical of many first generation three-tier web-based applications. Designing such
systems requires developers to have an intricate knowledge of the whole system and to take
care of how everything interacts and works together. In effect much of their time is devoted to
53

making the various elements work together (often resulting in proprietary interface
implementations). This is contrasting to a more modern serverless architecture from Amazon
24
(AWS)
The architecture also has three layers: presentation, application and data layers. The biggest
difference being that each layer connects with the layer above or below it through standardised
interfaces (so called application program interfaces (“​API​”)).
Another (simpler) way to therefore understand a serverless architecture is a system where the
backend IT business logic can run on an arbitrary third party vendor’s server infrastructure which
developers do not need to worry about.
It does not mean that there is no server to run your backend logic, but rather that you do not
need to maintain it. This serverless architecture is the business of third party vendors such as
Amazon, Azure and Google. In effect it gave birth to cloud computing over the past ten years.
Serverless architectures have two variant models:
●

BaaS or MBaaS (where M stands for mobile); and

●

FaaS

With BaaS or MBaaS, the backend IT logic will be run by a third-party service provider.
Application developers do not need to provision or maintain the servers or the infrastructure
which runs these backend services. In most cases, these backend services will run continuously
once they are started. Application developers will simply need to pay a subscription (or in the
future an “IT token”) to the hosting vendor. In most cases, this subscription lasts for weeks,
months or can run on a recurring yearly basis. Another important aspect of BaaS is that it runs
on a shared computer infrastructure and the same backend service will be used by multiple
different applications (in what is called multi-tenancy).
The second variant, FaaS, is even more popular these days. Most of the leading (current
generation) technologies such as AWS Lambda and Microsoft Azure Functions, as well as
Google Cloud Functions, fall into this category. With FaaS platforms, application developers can
implement their own backend logic and run them within the serverless framework. The running
of this functionality within a server will be handled by the serverless “framework”. All the
scalability, reliability, and security aspects will be taken over by this framework. Different vendors
provide different options to implement these functions with popular programming languages like
Java and C#.
For a developer or business running an application, it is possible to use the services of a
third-party provider (such as Amazon API Gateway and AWS Lambda). This allows developers
to build a serverless production application which is secure, scalable and highly available,
without worrying about the complexities of key functions such as authentication, searching,
updating and navigation of the underlying database layer. There are few differences between
FaaS when compared to BaaS:
●

costs relate only to the amount of resources actually being used (for example per
minute level charging);

24 ​

Serverless Computing and Applications. Available: https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/?nc1=h_ls

54

●

FaaS is ideal for use cases with highly fluctuating traffic; and

●

FaaS functions will run for a short period of time (typically a few mins only)

A simple way to understand when a developer will use a FaaS over BaaS is when the developer
needs ultimate granular control of how the application works, performs and scales.
These innovative applications will connect and interact with other similar applications - whilst at
the same time being smaller, more compact and more mobile. This is the essence of a so-called
“micro-services” model.
These techniques are being used today by very advanced developers serving leading digital
businesses (for example in B2B and B2C mobile e-commerce and mass consumer applications
such as in social media, gaming and communications). Over the coming years these techniques
will become common place; with all kinds of developers and firms and not be the preserve of
simply the most advanced companies like Facebook, Amazon, Google, Apple and Alibaba.
Serverless Architectures will simplify the maintenance of future backend IT systems while giving
cost and performance benefits for handling different types of decentralized micro-services based
dApps.
In short, developers don’t see themselves as “plumbers of IT” any more; they want to focus on
creative value-adding applications.
However, whilst there are many benefits, some aspects need to be carefully considered when
dealing with these form of serverless architectures; such as:
●

vendor lock-in could cause problems (for example frequent mandatory API changes,
pricing structure and other future technology changes);

●

speed issues across the network could occur and challenge the ability to meet
enterprise service level agreements (“​SLAs​”) for many concurrent users;

●

since server instances will come and go, maintaining the state of an application is
really challenging with these types of frameworks;

●

they are not suitable for running long-running business processes since these function
services will be terminated after a fixed time;

●

there are other very important limitations, such as the maximum possible
transactions-per-second (“​TPS​”) which can be processed; often limited by the protocol
used and the speed of interconnected IT services within the network; for example
memory access speed, network speed, stability and network response time (latency);

●

end-to-end testing or integration testing is not easy as these dynamic functions
spin-up and come and go as and when needed; and

●

lack of suitable monitoring and debugging capabilities into the production system and
their behavior for the developer to be fully confident about their performance.

55

Despite these current limitations, we do believe that in the near future, microservices based
dApps running on an AERGO based blockchain (in a serverless infrastructure deployment
model) will become one of the dominant deployment model for many new services in the
emerging distributed utility computing world.
In summary, we believe that the benefits of serverless architectures will be extremely important
for the evolution of blockchain over the coming years.
They provide the ability to:
1.

use multiple business application as service functions to reduce development costs;

2.

reduce operational costs as developers do not have to consider infrastructure and
maintenance costs;

3.

scale resources quickly (as and when needed), plus it provides horizontal scaling of
the application in a completely elastic and automatic manner;

4.

manage and operate IT resources much more easily, as all physical IT involvement
is managed by third party providers so there is no need to dedicate resources and
time to these tasks; and

5.

provide built-in availability and fault tolerance of serverless dApp applications.

The transition to new serverless applications has already started (see Figure-23 that follows).

56

Figure 23.​ Transition from Web 2.0 to Web 3.025

Whilst the adoption of serverless dApps is still very much work-in-progress, early indications are
that they will become a major force in how businesses deliver new services via secure and
distributed cloud-based services.
Some current mission-critical and at scale applications for businesses may not be immediate
targets for this approach today (as some security capabilities and ecosystem tools still need to
mature). However, the many potential use cases for serverless computing suggest that it is
M
​ atteo Gianpietro Zago. (2018).​ Why the Web 3.0 Matters and you should know about it.​ Available:
https://medium.com/@matteozago/why-the-web-3-0-matters-and-you-should-know-about-it-a5851d63c949
25

57

increasingly probable that it will become an “all in” decision for future firms. In fact it will be
similar in many ways to the way that cloud computing has already been adopted in a diverse
range of industries.
As this architectural methodology matures, we believe it will increasingly be taken up for many
thousands of new business projects in almost every sector of industry that deal with digital asset
and secure data exchange. For example, Everest Group has predicted that blockchain will
achieve accelerated adoptions within the next few years in the banking industry (see Figure-24).

Figure 24. ​Adoption of blockchain in Banking (Everest Group)26

Today, many dApps are being built by various firms that use specific (perhaps immature) vertical
blockchain solution implementations. There is little standardization; potentially leading to future
fragmentation. This will lead to undesired cost, complexity and risk for companies seeking to
leverage blockchain across many different business and product lines.

E
​ verest Group. (2016). ​Defining Blockchain​. Available:
https://www.everestgrp.com/2016-05-blockchain-technology-bfsi-benefits-market-insights-20805.html/
26

58

The level of fragmentation and complexity today can be seen in the following diagram.

Figure 25. ​Complex landscape of blockchain solutions (today)27

Businesses will be challenged as they will find it very difficult to support multiple blockchain
solutions (as described in the section: Obstacles to Blockchain Adoption, starting on page-14).

M
​ atteo Gianpietro Zago. (2018)​. Why the net giants are worried about the Web 3.0. ​Available:
https://medium.com/@matteozago/why-the-net-giants-are-worried-about-the-web-3-0-44b2d3620da5
27

59

APPENDIX-C: PRIVATE vs PUBLIC ENTERPRISE BLOCKCHAIN
Public and private blockchain protocols have many similarities:
●

Both are decentralized peer-to-peer networks, where each participant maintains a
replica of a shared append-only ledger of digitally signed transactions

●

In both cases, blockchain protocols provide data integrity and immutability (i.e. the
data contained in blockchain (and specifically its recorded state) cannot be modified
after it is created - even when some participants are faulty or malicious in a network)

●

Both maintain the replicas in sync through a protocol referred to as consensus

●

Both provide certain guarantees on the immutability of the ledger, even when some
participants are faulty or malicious (i.e. they work in a trustless network environment)

PUBLIC BLOCKCHAIN
At a conceptual level, the primary distinctions between public and private blockchain relate to
who is allowed to participate in the network, execute the ​consensus p
​ rotocol and maintain the
shared ledger. A public blockchain network is completely open and anyone can join and
participate in the network. The network typically has an incentivizing mechanism to encourage
more participants to join the network. Bitcoin is one of the largest public blockchain networks in
production today.
One of the drawbacks of existing public blockchains is the substantial amount of computational
power that is necessary to maintain a distributed ledger at a large scale. More specifically, to
achieve consensus, each node in a network must solve a complex, resource-intensive
cryptographic problem (called proof-of-work (“​PoW​”)) to ensure all nodes are synchronised and
trust is maintained.
This process is complex, slow and consumes vast amounts of energy (electricity).
Another disadvantage for particular users is the openness of many existing public blockchains,
which provide little to no privacy for transactions (subject to pseudonymity). They also only
support a weak notion of overall system level control as they are open to anyone to participate in
the network.
These are important considerations for future enterprise use of blockchain.
However, despite the above, in a public blockchain, no one person, group or organisation
controls the information which is on the blockchain; or the series of rules that underpin the
protocol itself. No member can unilaterally change the protocols of the blockchain and the
information contained within it. Users should be able to fully trust the public blockchain and
therefore put their complete trust in a third party that uses the same blockchain.
In short, public blockchains can provide maximum trust but are slow and expensive to run. They
can also be extremely difficult to upgrade, because they require consensus amongst a large
60

group of participants, many of whom may have different (and even competing) interests.
Further, their trusted status may be undermined by various factors, such as malicious activity
(such as so-called “front-running” by miners); by concerted behavior (e.g. when mining power is
concentrated in a small number of participants); or even legal complexities that arise from having
transactions recorded and validated in numerous jurisdictions all at once.
PRIVATE BLOCKCHAIN
A private blockchain network requires an invitation and must be validated by either the network
starter or by a set of rules put in place by the network starter. Businesses that set up a private
blockchain, will generally set up a ​permissioned network. This places restrictions on who is
allowed to participate in the network, and in what transactions. Participants need to obtain an
invitation or ​permission to join. The access control mechanism can vary: for example, existing
participants could decide future entrants, a regulatory authority could issue licenses for
participation or a consortium could make the decisions instead. Once an entity has joined the
network, it will play a role in maintaining the blockchain in a decentralized manner.
Private blockchains can (with careful system level IT design) permit greater scalability in terms of
transactional throughput.
In short, private blockchains provide improved privacy, maximum throughput and are potentially
cheaper to run, however they lack the level of trust and network effects that are gained from the
more widely deployed public blockchains.
A lot of businesses are experimenting with building their own private blockchains. A number of
these initiatives (and associated consortia) are facing difficulties to get these private blockchains
into real life production systems.
Some of the reasons for this are perhaps:
1. building proprietary private blockchain systems requires specialist IT, cloud and
developer skills and know-how that only very few firms possess
2. building these using an open source model - with the intention of using, enhancing
and maintaining these longer term - is extremely challenging (and software
development and maintenance is not typically a core-capability for these businesses)
3. the two above factors can significantly increase the long term costs of such systems
Therefore, for companies looking to integrate blockchain technology into their business
processes, very careful consideration needs to be placed on the (i) trust plus interoperability
(public) need versus (ii) performance plus privacy (private) requirement.
This is a fundamental paradox when dealing with combined public and private blockchains.
Most enterprise PoC efforts were apparently implemented in private blockchain networks. It
appears that only a third of these were actually deployed on public networks (see Figure-26
below for a similar comparison in the banking sector).

61

Figure 26. ​Type of Blockchain that were used in Bank driven PoC28

Due to stringent security and compliance requirements, large companies have traditionally
implemented their IT systems in private computer architectures (such as private internal clouds).
For the same reasons, many of these firms are experimenting with private blockchains, and
choosing not to use any form of public protocol.
A number of industry consortia (such as R3 and Hyperledger) - may be limiting their potential
long-term value and usefulness - by perhaps only considering one type of blockchain
architecture.
In fact, much of the innovation in blockchain is actually happening in the public protocol space.
This is evidenced by the sheer level of new ideas, projects and services that have been fueled
by the many large scale (primarily crypto-currency driven) blockchain projects. The majority of
these projects do focus on direct dApp development but this also drives certain innovations in
the underlying (primarily public) blockchains that run them.
We believe that truly transformative business benefits can be achieved if a hybrid approach to
blockchain is used. This approach would help maximize the benefits (and reduce the drawbacks)
of a combined public and private blockchain architecture. We see the benefit in having a
business architecture that - uses a public blockchain to provide enterprise integrity, immutability
and a trustless network environment, for data and value (asset) transactions - coupled with a
private blockchain that helps enable regulatory compliant record-keeping, privacy and that is
configured and optimized for the required enterprise level performance.
A similar form of hybrid approach is already in use today with cloud computing. Enterprise firms
combine private cloud (highly information-sensitive focused) data centres, with lower cost secure
public clouds (for auto-scaling and performance throughput of business applications).

28

N
​ ivedita Bhattacharjee. (2017).​ Blockchain is becoming more than a buzzword, and now there’s tangible proof​. Available:

https://www.techinasia.com/bankers-like-blockchain

62

APPENDIX-D: AERGO Team and Advisory Panel
AERGO represents a complex and comprehensive project that is being undertaken. Its
development and successful deployment will demand a combination of an array of disciplines namely, blockchain technology, cloud computing and open source know-how.
AERGO has assembled a truly complementary team with stellar experience and proven
expertise in these areas.
AERGO BOARD

COMMITTEE HEADS

63

TECHNOLOGY TEAM

64

BUSINESS TEAM

AERGO ADVISORS

65

66

APPENDIX-E: Glossary of Terms
Branching​: the duplication of an object under revision control (such as a source code file or a
directory tree) so that modifications can happen in parallel along both branches.
Concurrency control​: a database management systems concept that is used to address
conflicts with the simultaneous accessing or altering of data that can occur with a multi-user
system.
Content Delivery Network​: a geographically distributed network of proxy servers and their data
centres. The goal is to distribute service spatially relative to end-users to provide high availability
and high performance
Decentralised Application (dApp)​: ​A dApp has its backend software code running on a
decentralized peer-to-peer network. Contrast this with a typical app where the backend code is
running on centralized servers.
Denial-of-service attack​: a cyber-attack in which the perpetrator seeks to make a machine or
network resource unavailable to its intended users by temporarily or indefinitely disrupting
services of a host connected to the Internet.
Hard-fork​: a radical change to the protocol that makes previously invalid blocks/transactions
valid (or vice-versa).
JIT compilation​: a way of executing computer code that involves compilation during execution
of a program – at run time – rather than prior to execution.
LLVM:​ a compiler infrastructure project that is a collection of modular and reusable compiler and
toolchain technologies used to develop compiler front ends and back ends.
Merging​: combining the various versions and/or changes of a file or folder.
Microservices​: a software development technique—a variant of the service-oriented
architecture (SOA) architectural style that structures an application as a collection of loosely
coupled services.
Orchestration​: the effect of automation or systems deploying elements of control theory.

67

Parallelism​: a type of computation in which many calculations or the execution of processes are
carried out concurrently.
Private Chain:​ a blockchain network with limited openness and decentralization compared with
a public chain, where authorization under specific rules is required for a new node to join the
network.
Proof of Stake​: a concept that states that a person can mine or validate block transactions
according to how many coins he or she holds.
Proof of Work​: an economic measure to deter denial of service attacks and other service
abuses such as spam on a network by requiring some work from the service requester, usually
meaning processing time by a computer.
Public Chain​: A blockchain network fully open and decentralized, where any participants can
join the network if they follow the protocol of the public chain.
Serialisation​: the process of translating data structures or object state into a format that can be
stored (for example, in a file or memory buffer) or transmitted (for example, across a network
connection link) and reconstructed later (possibly in a different computer environment)
Serverless Computing​: a cloud-computing execution model in which the cloud provider
dynamically manages the allocation of machine resources.
Smart Contract​: a computer protocol intended to digitally facilitate, verify, or enforce the
negotiation or performance of a contract.
Smart Oracles​: external agents or programs that find and verify real-world occurrences and
submit this information to a blockchain to be used by the smart contracts themselves. They
provide external data and “trigger” the smart contracts. In effect smart oracles are third-party
“data feeds”. They supply this information in a secure and trusted manner.
Software Repository: ​a storage location from which software packages may be retrieved and
installed on a computer.

68

