Blockchain for Airline Passengers Safety

Blockchain for Aviation Safety

Aeron — the new standard of aviation
safety powered by blockchain

v 2.0
August 8, 2020

We are aviation professionals. For 11 years

we pilot aircrafts, develop ﬂight crew training
programs and aeronautical databases. Our
newest blockchain based innovation is creating
the future of aviation safety. Why?
—

Because passengers’ lives is our ﬁrst priority.

Nadezda Barkanova

Konstantin Gertman

CTO

CDO

Konstantin is a certiﬁed pilot and passionate aviation enthusiast.
Co-founder of aerotrips.com — aviation portal for pilots and ﬂight schools.
Nadezhda is a pilot and an aircraft operation and air trafﬁc management
engineer with over 11 years of experience.

3

Table of Contents
Aviation market

6

The Future of Aviation

8

Problems & Solutions

9

Advantages of blockchain

11

How it works

12

Pilot Application

13

Company Application

14

aerotrips. com

15

Logs under control

16

Aeron Features

19

Aeron Benchmarking

20

Token Functions & Benefits

21

Why we do Token Sale?

21

Token Functionality

22

Aviation on Blockchain

24

Budget allocation

25

Roadmap

26

4

Our Clients

28

Canvas business model

29

Team

30

Advisory Board

32

Communities

35

Conclusion

36

Terms and Conditions

37

5

104,171,935 passengers passed through the Hartsﬁeld–Jackson International Airport in 2016

Aviation market
— Today more than ever, despite ﬁnancial uncertainty,
young people are saving up to travel around the world.
With modern technology evolving everyday, we take a lot of things for
granted. We often forget how convenient travel is today. Aviation plays
a bigger role in our lives than one might imagine. Think about this: nearly 63
million jobs are provided by air travel, making aviation a key component in
global business. Aside from the economy factor, today more than ever people
are willing to invest their savings into traveling as opposed to spend money
shopping or going out locally. Young people in their 20”s and 30”s see travel
as the best investment of their money, in exchange for cultural experiences.
According to the United Nations, young people generate $180 billion annually
in tourism revenue. What’s surprising is that today more than ever people are
willing to travel despite any economic uncertainty. Reason being, tourists
want to see and explore as many different cultures as they can, something
they can’t do from the comfort of their own home.
6

Tourism is quickly becoming the world's largest industry and air transport
plays a vital role in supporting this sector. Conservative analysis suggests
that aviation supports $892.4 billion in economic activity within the tourism
industry.

World ﬂeet to double in size
over the next 20 years

2017

21,600 ﬂeet

2037

43,560 ﬂeet
40,630

19,880

Passenger ﬂeet

2,930

Freighter ﬂeet

1,720

Boeing aviation market outlook

3.57 billion passengers

104,000 ﬂights

3.57 billion passengers were
carried by airlines in 2017

Every day, 104,000 ﬂights take off and
9.8 million passengers travel

99.1 million jobs

5,500 ﬂights using alternative fuel

By 2037, it is expected that
aviation will support 99.1
million jobs worldwide

Over 5,500 ﬂights using sustainable
alternative fuel are expected to be made
by the end of 2018

The average occupancy of an
aircraft is 80% higher than
other modes of transport

The Middle East is forecasted to be the
fastest growing region for air trafﬁc in the
next 20 years, followed by Africa, Asia-Paciﬁc
and Latin America.

7

Uber plans to test ﬂying cars by 2020

The Future of Aviation
Going even further, aviation has developed much further than we ever
thought it could. Private space travel is already today’s reality. In 2001, Dennis
Tito got to experience travelling to space, and as he would recall ten years
later, it was the happiest day of his life. With constantly evolving technology
space travel will become more accessible soon enough. Richard Branson
launched Virgin Galactic in 2004. The company offers suborbital space ﬂights
to tourists, as well as suborbital launches for science missions. Another
breakthrough in space technology was developed by Elon Musk. SpaceX,
founded in 2002, became the ﬁrst provider to be able
to launch and recover a spacecraft from orbit. We
can only expect that space tourism will become the
next most wanted attraction in no time. According
to Wired, Uber's ﬂying cars could arrive in Dubai
and Texas by 2020. More importantly, Uber has
signed deals with ﬁve companies that are developing
electric vertical takeoff and landing aircraft:
Pentagon-backed Aurora Flight Sciences, electric
plane maker Pipistrel, Bell Helicopter, Embraer, and
small plane maker Mooney.
8

Successful landing
of Falcon 9 in 2017

Problems & Solutions
Despite the fact that we came so far in exploring space, there are still issues
to be dealt with in air travel. With over 100,000 ﬂights made daily, serving
over 2 million people, safety is still a major concern.

Accidents related to air transport average
to about 3302 yearly, mainly due
to human factor
We looked at several common problems. The key problems are that pilots may
lack experience they claim, as ﬂight log records can be easily forged. This
problem is worsened by “pay to ﬂy” practices, offered to pilots who would not
have been hired otherwise. Flight schools may be corrupt to help pilots put
in hours on paper. Aircraft operators also contribute to the problem by often
underreporting the ﬂight hours, saving huge maintenance costs for the
aircraft. With quickly developing technology, aside from human factors, we
also face database intrusion, resulting in modiﬁcation or distortion of data.
With so many systems in play—airlines alone house data in many isolated
systems from passenger service to crew management—data exchange is not
always smooth. In the airline industry, not only are operational integrity and
revenue generation at stake when something goes wrong, but even more
importantly, so is safety and security.
Protecting data privacy is a clear issue when it comes to passenger records,
ﬂight manifests and crew information. Not to mention the security
implications that are in play today if this data is not properly protected.
Blockchain technology with a security wrapper creates a very different and
less risky, yet transparent approach to managing and sharing this
information through the use of authorized access requirements.
9

Completely new level of security,
established by blockchain
Blockchain technology can transform pilot and aircraft maintenance logs,
which at best are in cumbersome databases and, at worst, are in paper
binders. The blockchain will ensure that spare parts procured are legitimate
and can offer a “virtual copy” immutable record of the provenance of every
part on the plane, every time it has been handled and by whom, from the
beginning of the aircraft’s existence. This visibility is profound, and can take
the practice of aircraft maintenance, safety and security to new levels.

internationalairportreview.com

“Blockchain will revolutionise the aviation and airport
industry.”

accenture.com

“Blockchain technology can create new efficiencies
and services models for airlines.”

cryptocoinsnews.com

“Blockchain technology can improve
the airline industry”

10

Advantages of blockchain
A solid, distributed, inviolable and cryptographically secure database.
The chain of blocks stores the encrypted code of the documents, and once
saved, the data is recorded forever.
The perfect place to store property rights, credentials, identities (of objects
or people), agreements between parties, transmissions and transactions.
No one can falsify, bribe or hack the data inscribed in the blocks
of blockchain. Transaction hisory is transparent to all users.
Blockchain supports Smart Contracts, which is a computer protocol
that facilitates, veriﬁes, enforces agreements and execution of a contract
in an automatic and transparent way.

is the new standard of aviation safety
Falsiﬁcation of data would be no longer a concern with the development of
blockchain. Advantages of the blockchain system are that information is
safely stored and completely transparent to all the users. It is secured by
a multi-sig authentication system, preventing any alteration of vital data.
Our aim is to create “airline in a pocket” — a smart blockchain based solution.
The way it works is simple. The pilot’s application is used by a pilot for
personal ﬂight logging. The company application collects and veriﬁes data
from aircraft operators, maintenance organizations, ﬂight schools and ﬁxed
base operators. In case of any mismatch in data between any Aeron data
source with either the Air Trafﬁc Control, pilot, or operator, aviation
authorities can quickly detect and eliminate the problem. Aviation authorities
can also detect any pilots operating with an expired license. As a consumer,
or ﬂight school student, you have access to the veriﬁed global database
through aerotrips.com. Blockchain can really make a difference. Air travel is
for everyone, and it is beneﬁcial for every single person to get involved in
making trips safer.

11

How it works
In case of any mismatch in data between any
Aeron data source with either the ATC, pilot,
or operator, aviation authorities can quickly
detect and eliminate the problem. Aviation
authorities can also detect any pilots operating
with an expired license.

Blockchain Trusted Data Repository

12

ATC — Air Trafﬁc Control

Pilot Application
Use case
1. Pilot opens the mobile application
(iOS or Android)
2. Pilot selects “new ﬂight”
3. Pilot select the Aircraft, enters FROM
and TO airﬁeld codes and OUT time
4. Application tracks location during ﬂight and
records the ﬂight track
5. Once the ﬂight is completed, IN time is recorded
1

6. Pilot is offered choices of FBO services at his
destination airﬁeld, featured or discounted
services are highlighted
7. Pilot has a choice to purchase certain services
from his application
8. Once the ﬂight is submitted to blockchain, its
status can be viewed, whether validated against
2

3

AC operator log (for the same Aircraft) and ATC
data (once the automated ATC data processing
with Data Hub is set up)
New ﬂight entry in Pilot App

9. Historical records are available to the pilot for
review, analysis and statistic summaries
1

2

FBO — Fixed Base Operator, AC — Aircraft,
3

ATC — Air Trafﬁc Control

Value to the Pilot: convenient logging application, compliance and
transparency for aviation authorities, improved public trust in
pilot experience, discounted FBO services and ability to pay with
cryptocurrency, as well as an aerotrips.com club membership
13

Company Application
Use case
1. Company employee opens the mobile application
(iOS or Android)
2. User receives data about completed ﬂight from
server (tracked by Pilot App)
3. User adds information about oil, refueling, and
remarks on the technical condition of the Aircraft
4. User can assign a task to a technical specialist
1

or maintenance organization for AC service
5. User can manage Aircraft bookings through
the application
7. User can add other company services, which
pilots can order through the application
8. Once the ﬂight is submitted to blockchain, it’s
status can be viewed, whether validated against
2

Pilot log (for the same Aircraft) and ATC data
(once the automated ATC data processing with
Data Hub is set up)
9. Historical records are available to the company
for review, analysis, and statistic summaries
1

Flight information in Company App

2

AC — Aircraft, ATC — Air Trafﬁc Control

Value to the Company: convenient logging application, compliance
and transparency for aviation authorities, easy aircraft booking
system, aircraft management and maintenance, inﬂow of new
customers introduced through the application
14

aerotrips.com
Passenger Use case
1. Passenger opens web portal at aerotrips.com
2. He/she is seeking options for demo ﬂights
around a certain location
3. Offers from local ﬂight schools and private
pilots are shown on the map
4. Pilots with ﬂight logs validated with Aeron
solution are highlighted (with a trust icon)
5. Passenger can select the best offers (based
on ﬂight time, cost, etc) and perform booking
6. Booking can be paid online with ﬁat
or cryptocurrency
7. He/she receives a booking conﬁrmation
8. Once the ﬂight is completed, passenger can
submit a report and feedback
9. Booked ﬂight data is validated against logs
submitted by the pilot and pilot’s experience
on web portal is updated
Beta version of aerotrips.com

Value to the Passenger: access to the global database of ﬂight
offers, including Air Taxi & Charters, Flight Tours & Excursions,
pilots with validated experience, an ability to pay with
cryptocurrency, and an aerotrips.com club membership

15

Till date, pilot logs mainly exist in paper form with manual signatures and stamps.

Logs under control
National aviation authorities have no universal mechanism to control
integrity and authenticity of the pilot logs electronically. There are no
international standards or comprehensive technology for electronic logging.
Each country maintains its own log book formats and establishes national
rules for processing and validation of the logs. The legacy system is not
equipped to handle the ever-increasing number and variety of small aircraft
and licensed private pilots operating worldwide. This leads to a less than
optimal experience for many people involved.
Aeron has a solution to this logging conundrum based on blockchain
technology. It will enable an online system relying on Aeron database, built
on Ethereum blockchain to track aircraft and pilot log records, as well as ARN,
a utility token to enable the development of a thriving, self-sustaining
ecosystem around the database and token holders. True “airline in a pocket”
featuring integrity, reliability and easy validation.
16

We believe that aviation safety is closely related to record integrity. Once
the log records are stored in blockchain, available for public audit and can’t
be forged, both authorities and passengers can be conﬁdent that a pilot
actually has the experience claimed. Taking this a step further, the same
system can be applied to aircraft maintenance records and tracking of spare
parts, to conﬁrm that spare parts are authentic, maintenance has been
performed according to standards and there are no shortcuts.
The system described above could be supported by smart contracts that
contain various log records, as well as execute rental deeds or charters
for the aircraft, or cost sharing agreements between private pilots and their
passengers; combined with a sleek user interface to allow for engagement
with the blockchain, and a deﬁned protocol to ensure transactions occur
in compliance with local regulations. Aeron (ARN) utility token would
be required for write access to the Aeron database and other on-chain events.
Aeron token would also have a real-world application, as it could
be envisaged as a means of payment for small aircraft charters
or promotional leisure ﬂights, with aircraft owners having signed
up for partnership arrangements with Aeron.
Aeron will work with national aviation authorities and international aviation
agencies including EASA and FAA, to promote acceptance of the electronic
log records based on blockchain, to demonstrate integrity, reliability and
transparency of record keeping. A smart phone application will ultimately
replace obsolete paper records and would gain a global acceptance, enabling
a single point of reference for licensed private pilots, aircraft owners and
operators, aviation enthusiasts and general public interested in aircraft
charters, leisure ﬂights and pilot training.

17

Blockchain for Aviation Safety

Making blockchain
services for aviation real
Blockchain for aviation incubator. Growth hack worldwide aviation
strartups on blockchain: connect aviation authorities and industry
vision and blockchain developers’ potential.
Education. Educate aviation companies on blockchain integration.
Blockchain aviation consultancy. Help major vendors, parts
manufacturers and airlines to implement blockchain in their business.

18

Aeron Features
With Aeron ﬂight safety is enhanced

You as a pilot can validate

You can be confident

your ﬂight experience, facilitating

in the experience of your pilot

career progression

or ﬂight instructor

You data is automatically
matched from multiple log data

Your log records cannot

sources, eliminating fake entries

be lost or damaged

You can pay for ﬂights,
AM and FBO services with

cryptocurrencies using mobile app

You get discounts for ﬂights,

AM and FBO services with the loyalty/
membership program
19

Your aircraft has a transparent
maintenance history stored in
blockchain, increasing resale value

You can easily find options
for aircraft charters, leisure ﬂights,
and pilot training
AM — Aircraft Maintenance, FBO – Fixed Base Operators

Aeron
Benchmarking
Reliability

Convenience

Transparency

Validation

records can’t be lost

easy entry and viewing

records auditable

records can’t be forged

Traditional paper
logbooks
Logging applications
with local database
Logging applications
with cloud database

Aeron solution with
blockchain interface
Aeron has an innovative solution based on blockchain technology.
It will enable an online system relying on Aeron database, built on Ethereum
blockchain to track aircraft and pilot log records.

20

Why we do Token Sale?
There are many arguments why we have chosen to do the token sale
instead of alternatives ways to raise money:

First, a token sale not only allows us to onboard participants from different
regions but also to incentivise them to promote Aeron’s products.

Second, tokens provide liquidity since they can be traded on various
exchanges after the token sale.

Finally, the token smart contract enables easy distribution of tokens to

participants, instant payments with tokens, security and transparency, which
would be hard to achieve without usage of blockchain technology.

Token Functions & Benefits

We introduced Aeron (ARN), an ERC20 compliant Ethereum based token,

with an initial supply of 20,000,000 ARN. Aeron utility tokens were
created to fund development and marketing of the Aeron project with
associated distributed database, online portal and applications, as
described in this document.

Aeron is built on the ERC20 token standard
with an initial supply of 20,000,000 ARN

Because Aeron is built on the ERC20 token standard, it allows for simple
integration into users’ wallets and is freely tradeable via direct transfers or
via smart contracts. It is possible that Aeron token could also be added to
cryptocurrency exchanges.
21

The total supply of ARN will slowly decrease over time, as tokens are taken
out of circulation, for example, when someone with ARN loses their private
keys, therefore, ARN will be effectively deﬂationary. Once Aeron receives ARN
for services rendered, the tokens will be put back into the circulation.
As a primary utility, for write access to database with signing log entries and
validation on the blockchain, Aeron may charge a transaction fee in ARN.

Token Functionality
Aeron (ARN) utility token will be incorporated in Aeron products. It helps
to enhance product usage, allow contribution to the ecosystem, product
access and ownership. ARN is a bootstrapping engagement. While the token
will enable access to valuable features within the Aeron platform, it won’t be
limited by the Aeron mobile applications. Aeron token can be utilized for
the following purposes, creating revenue streams for Aeron and offering
additional beneﬁts to the token holders:
1. Subscription fee / Transaction based fee for log entries
2. Commission on paid services (in ﬁat or ARN tokens)
3. Commission on intermediation and client introductions
4. Currency (mean of payment) for buying aviation services
5. Unlock access to ﬂight schools, offers from pilots and aviation companies
To incentivise participation in the ecosystem and expand our reach, we will
offer a seed quantity of Aeron tokens to ﬂight schools, aircraft operators and
aviation companies signing up with Aeron. Once seed tokens are exhausted
we expect a steady demand for tokens from the users. Compared to ﬁat based
payments for Aeron fees and commissions, we will offer discounts should
the fees be paid in ARN, facilitating further demand. Aeron tokens will be
the currency of aerotrips. com club, offering premium access to offers from
aviation companies, special incentives and discounts.

22

We created ARN with a clear vision that token must work, must be viable,
secure, well funded, inﬂation protected, work better than other coins and do
something unique as well. These are key elements to the solid foundation.
More of that, we believe that ARN will bring improvements to society as well
as short and long term gains to investors.
As a long term vision, at the ﬁrst stage of project development ARN tokens
would be used within the Aeron platform, and at the second — they will
became the standard token in aviation. Roadmap for Aeron token application
is the following:
Unlock access
to ﬂight schools,
offers from
pilots…

Buying access
to premium app
features

Currency for
buying aviation
services

Membership
club and access
to discounts

Currency for
buying aviation
supplies

First stage (2018-2019/Q1)

Second stage (2019/Q2-2020)

The Aeron token contract is published at https://aeron.aero.
In 2019, Aeron (ARN) token was migrated from Ethereum to Binance Chain
(BEP2 standard). In 2020, ARN token was swapped to the new ARNX token
and is no longer tradable at cryptocurrency exchanges. The new ARNX, an
ERC20 compliant Ethereum based token, was introduced to consolidate back
on Ethereum blockchain and enable the contemporary functions in token
smart contract (including GSN capability, where apps may pay gas for users
transactions, so they do not need to hold ETH to pay for gas, easing their
onboarding process).
With the new DeFi-enabled ARNX token, Aeron is well positioned for further
development. The ARNX token supply is 200,000,000 ARNX. Tokens are
allocated to facilitate marketing activities, loyalty rewards, as well as staking.
Please follow this link for ARN to ARNX swap: https://i.aeron.aero/migrate
23

Aviation on Blockchain
Aeron connect various entities. Pilots, ﬂight schools, aviation companies,
airlines, aircraft operators and maintenance companies and other businesses
will be involved in one network.
We envisage the Aeron platform can add value as follows:
Transparent relationship between aviation businesses;
Fast transactional speed;
No intermediaries;
High level of security;
Trustful and veriﬁable records.

24

Budget allocation
40% Research & Development

30% Marketing & Promotion

10% Technology Infrastructure

10% Lobbyng with Authorities

5%

Legal Consultancy

5%

Administration

25

Roadmap
We recognize the signiﬁcant complexity of blockchain technology and are
building a multi-stage Aeron solution to be phased in over time. The Aeron
team works actively on several fronts to ensure that we are building the
correct solution that can solve the real problems of stakeholders, while also
complying with all regulations.
Ultimately, we would like to extend our solution to contribute to ﬂight safety,
by recording the aircraft maintenance events and tracking the spare parts.
This requires close cooperation with maintenance organizations and spare
parts manufacturers worldwide, turning the Aeron database into a reference
for verifying parts authenticity.

26

Live Today

Short-Term

Long-Term

Online Portal
aerotrips.com

Application Beta
and Online Portal

Application
and Online Portal

No blockchain

Partially
decentralized

Fully
decentralized

Traditional payment
system on portal

Traditional and
cryptocurrency
payments

Traditional and
cryptocurrency
payments

Global database

Global database

Global database

—

Application
in Europe

Application
globally

Status: Live and
active users

Status: Concept
development

Status:
R&D assessment

Aeron Roadmap

27

Our Clients
Student Pilot

Flight Examiner

Fixed Base Operators

Private Pilot

Flight Schools

Aviation Authorities

Commercial Pilot

Aircraft Operators

Flight Instructor

Maintanance Organizations

Revenue Streams
Aeron has a simple and scalable business model. When any transaction
involving a payment between counterparts is concluded (for example, service
provided by a ﬁxed based operator to a pilot introduced by Aeron, an aircraft
charter or a leisure ﬂight booking), Aeron takes a small percentage (starting
from 2% and averaging ~5% of the total consideration payable by the user.
The payments are initially processed by the traditional payment system on
the online portal, in ﬁat, and cryptocurrencies will be added as a means of
payment for the jurisdictions where possible. Payment would also be made
possible with ARN tokens, as introduced earlier in this document. For write
access to database with signing log entries and validation on the blockchain,
Aeron may charge a small transactional fee.
28

Canvas business model
Key
partners

Key
activities

Value
proposition

Aviation
Authorities

Building and
administration
of infrastructure

Aeron —
the new standard
of aviation safety
powered by
blockchain

FAA
EASA
National
Authorities

GR, Lobbying
and Marketing

Channels

Clients

aeron.aero

Student Pilot

aerotrips.com
Pilot
Application
Company
Application

Private Pilot
Commercial Pilot
Flight Instructor
Flight Examiner
Flight Schools
Aircraft Operators
Maintanance
Organizations
Fixed Base
Operators

Cost structure

29

Revenue streams

R&D

Marketing & Promotion

Subscription fee / Transaction based fee for log entries

Legal Consultancy

Technology Infrastructure

Commission on paid services (in ﬁat or ARN tokens)

Administration

Lobbyng with Authorities

Commission on intermediation and client introductions

Team of certified pilots, aviation
engineers and developers
Artem Orange
CEO
Artem has more than 15 years of experience in telecoms and
ﬁnance. Ex-CEO of two national cellular operators and a serial
entrepreneur in hi-tech industries. Aviation enthusiast and
a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) charterholder since 2009.

!

LinkedIn

Nadezhda Barkanova
CTO
Nadezhda is an aircraft operation and air trafﬁc management
engineer with over 11 years of experience, specializing in full
cycle of production aeronautical databases, ﬂight crew training
programs, ﬂight simulators and computer based training
development. EASA PPL(A) holder since 2013.

!

LinkedIn

Konstantin Gertman
CDO
Konstantin has 14 years of experience in consulting, market
research and ﬁnancial businesses. Master of Science in
Banking and Finance. A passionate small aviation enthusiast
and Co-founder of aerotrips.com, EASA certiﬁed pilot since 2013.

!

30

LinkedIn

Dmitri Prokopenko
Business Development China
Dmitri is a long term resident of China. Fluent in Mandarin,
founder of several language schools and ex-CEO of Water
Energy, a new energy startup in Xiamen. Crypto analyst and
investor, supporting projects like TenX, IOTA, LBC and Steem.

!

LinkedIn

Dmitry Bezkorovainyi
Application Lead
Dmitry offers 10 years experience in web services and mobile
app development. With background in ﬁnancial web services
development and integration, Dmitry has a particuar focus on
driving mobile application lifecycle for Aeron.

!

LinkedIn

Andrii Bulavinov
Blockchain Lead
Andrii is a software developer and manager with over 15 years
hands-on experience. Blockchain researcher, responsible for
implementation on Ethereum and Stellar platforms as storage
infrastructure and smart contracts transaction protocol.

!

31

LinkedIn

Advisory Board
Philip McMaster (大龙), Beijing, China
Brand Ambassador
Philip is well known in the Chinese and world blockchain
space as the creator of the Republic Of Conscience. He
advises on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy
and compliance as well as human transportation
efficiency. Former MBA lecturer in top Canadian and Hong
Kong business schools, publisher and executive in the
aerospace and media industry as well as certification
program developer for governments and tourism
companies.
Philip is concerned with helping Aeron lead the general
aviation industry in setting the immutable standard in
safety and sustainability.

!

LinkedIn

Constantinos Kozakos, Limassol, Cyprus
Aviation Advisor
Constantinos is a Managing Director at Griffon Aviation,
the ﬁrst licensed ﬂight school on Cyprus offering
complete range of pilot courses: from basic to advanced
Flight Instructor ratings. A Chartered Accountant (FCCA)
and Auditor by profession, Constantinos offers a unique
angle, combining extensive knowledge in accountancy
and compliance with his passion in aviation.
Constantinos supports Aeron in liaison with ﬂight
schools worldwide, to build awareness and ensure
recognition of Aeron solution

!
32

LinkedIn

Dmitrijs Kasjarums, Latvia
Legal Advisor
Dmitrijs a partner of an International consulting
company Baltconsult. He has more than 12 years
experience in legal practice: corporate disputes, tax risk
prevention, immigration law, registration and licensing of
payment systems, representation of interests of investors
engaged in a work with startups in the ﬁeld of
information technology.
Dmitrijs supports Aeron in legal aspects of the Token
Sale to ensure compliance and design the robust legal
platform for Aeron application worldwide.

!

LinkedIn

Vladimir Feoktistov, Cyprus
Blockchain Technology Advisor
Vladimir has a master’s degree in physics. He has been
working as a lead programmer in ﬁnancial, aerospace and
data analysis sectors. His biggest project was
development of the derivatives matching engine and risk
management systems for Moscow Exchange. Vladimir
was a CTO of trueﬂip. io leading a successful ICO and
developed many other projects related
to cryprocurrencies and blockchain.
Vladimir helps Aeron to drive technical strategy and
design architecture of the blockchain based database
for aviation.

!

33

LinkedIn

Eric Ross, Orlando, USA
Technical Advisor
Eric brings 32 years experience in the defence and
commercial industries specializing in RF
communications and electronics systems integration,
testing and fielding in airborne, land and sea based
environments.
With 10 years management of a Preventive and Corrective
Maintenance facility providing customers flightline and
backshop services, Eric assists Aeron as a Technical
Advisor.

Alexander Jiung (海边的), Xiamen, China
Advisor Greater China
Alexander is an active blockchain evangelist and
promoter. With deep knowledge of local blockchain
enthusiast communities, he is the regular visitor at
conferences and blockchain related events across Greater
China and globally. Strong communication skills and
international exposure help Alexander in fostering lasting
partnerships.
Alexander is helping Aeron in liaison with local
Blockchain Clubs across China and in building relevant
communication strategy.

34

Join our communities
Telegram
https://t.me/aeronaero

Twitter
https://twitter.com/aeron_aero

Facebook
https://www.facebook.com/aeronpublic

Reddit
https://www.reddit.com/r/aeronaero

GitHub
https://github.com/aeronaero/aeron

Medium
https://medium.com/@aeronaero

Bitcoin Talk
https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2078239.0

35

Conclusion

— Blockchain technology will continue
to take ﬂight in airlines over the next
decade. Something that could not have
been conceived of yesterday, is
becoming reality today, reducing
complexity and costs while improving
the travel journey with real-time
travel experiences.

36

Terms and Conditions
This section informs you of the Terms and Conditions governing use of
the information and functionality offered at www.aeron.aero (“Web site”)
including this present document. By using the Web site, you agree to be
bound by these Terms and Conditions.
1. The Web site does not constitute a prospectus of any sort, is not
a solicitation for investment and does not pertain in any way to an offering
of securities in any jurisdiction.
2. By transferring ETH, BTC, or any other cryptographic tokens
(“Cryptocurrency”) to obtain Aeron tokens (“ARN” or “ARN tokens”) and/or
receiving ARN, no form of partnership, joint venture or any similar
relationship is created between the user and the creators of ARN and/or
any other individuals involved with the Web site or ARN.
3. By transferring Cryptocurrency to obtain ARN tokens and/or receiving ARN,
the user conﬁrms that the user is neither a United States citizen nor
resident, and the user does not have a primary residence or domicile in
the United States, including Puerto Rico, the U. S. Virgin Islands, or any
other territories of the United States, and the user is not acting on behalf of
United States citizen, resident or entity.
4. By transferring Cryptocurrency to obtain ARN tokens and/or receiving ARN,
the user expressly represents and warrants that:
a. The user has a deep understanding of the functionality, usage, storage,
transmission mechanisms and intricacies associated with cryptographic
tokens and blockchain-based software systems;
b. The user has carefully reviewed the code of the smart contract located on
the Ethereum blockchain at the addresses set forth on the Web site and
fully understands and accepts the functions implemented therein;
c. The user is legally permitted to transfer Cryptocurrency to obtain ARN
tokens, and is legally permitted to obtain ARN in the user’s jurisdiction;
d. The user is legally permitted to receive software and interact with the ARN
tokens smart contract;
37

e. The user is of a sufﬁcient age to legally obtain ARN tokens;
f. The user will take sole responsibility for any restrictions and risks
associated with obtaining ARN tokens by the smart contract system;
g. The user is not submitting Cryptocurrency to obtain ARN for the purpose of
speculative investment;
h. The user is not obtaining or using ARN for any illegal purposes;
i. The user waives the right to participate in a class action lawsuit or a class
wide arbitration against any entity or individual involved with the Web site
or with the creation or distribution of ARN tokens;
j. The user understands that submitting Cryptocurrency to obtain ARN does
not involve the purchase of shares or any equivalent in any existing
or future public or private company, corporation or other entity in any
jurisdiction;
k. The user understands and expressly accepts that there is no warranty
whatsoever on ARN, expressed or implied, to the extent permitted by law,
and that the smart contract system is used and ARN are obtained
at the sole risk of the user on an “as is” basis and without, to the extent
permitted by law, any warranties of any kind, including, but not limited to,
warranties of title or implied warranties, merchantability or ﬁtness for
a particular purpose;
l. The user understands that the user has no right against any party
to request any refund of the Cryptocurrency submitted to obtain ARN
tokens under any circumstance;
m. The user understands that the user bears the sole responsibility
to determine if the transfer of the Cryptocurrency to obtain ARN tokens,
the obtaining, ownership, or use of ARN, and/or any other action
or transaction related to ARN may have tax implications for the user;
n. By obtaining, owning or using ARN, and to the extent permitted by law,
the user agrees not to hold any party liable for any tax liability associated
with or arising from obtaining, owning or using ARN or any other action
or transaction related to the Web site.

38

The user acknowledges and agrees that, to the fullest extent permitted by
5. any applicable law, the user will not hold any developers, contractors or
creators of ARN tokens and/or the Web site liable for any and all damages
or injury whatsoever caused by or related to the use of, or the inability to
use, ARN tokens or the Web site under any cause or action whatsoever of
any kind in any jurisdiction, including, without limitation, actions for
breach of warranty, breach of contract or tort (including negligence and
that developers, contractors or creators of the Web site and/or ARN tokens
shall not be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, exemplary or
consequential damages, including for loss of proﬁts, goodwill or data, in any
way whatsoever arising out of the use of, or the inability to use the Web site
and/or ARN tokens.
By obtaining, holding or using ARN tokens, and to the extent permitted by
6. law, the user agrees not to hold any third party (including developers,
contractors or creators liable for any regulatory implications or liability
associated with or arising from obtaining, owning or using ARN or any
other action or transaction related to the Web site.
The user understands and accepts that the network of miners will be
7. ultimately in control of the ARN tokens smart contract. The user
understands that a majority of these miners could agree at any point to
make changes to the ofﬁcial smart contract system and to run the new
version of the smart contract system.
The user agrees that if any portion of these Terms and Conditions is found
8. illegal or unenforceable, in whole or in part, such provision shall, as to such
jurisdiction, be ineffective solely to the extent of such determination of
invalidity or unenforceability without affecting the validity or
enforceability thereof in any other manner or jurisdiction and without
affecting the remaining provisions of the Terms and Conditions, which
shall continue to be in full force and effect.
These Terms and Conditions are effective as of 1 July 2017 and will remain
9. in effect, except with respect to any changes in their provisions in the
future, which will be in effect immediately after being posted at
www.aeron.aero/terms.html. The Terms and Conditions can be updated or
changed at any time and you should check these Terms and Conditions
periodically. Your continued use of the Web site and/or ARN tokens after
39

any modiﬁcations to the Terms and Conditions are posted at
www.aeron.aero/terms.html will constitute your acknowledgment of the
modiﬁcations and your consent to abide and be bound by the modiﬁed
Terms and Conditions. For any material changes to these Terms and
Conditions, we will notify you either through the email address you have
provided on the Web site, or by placing a prominent notice at
www.aeron.aero/terms.html.

Most importantly, aviation brings
people together, enabling social
connectivity like never before.
Blockchain for
Aviation Safety
If you have any questions, ask us in Telegram:
https://t.me/aeronaero

© Aeron Labs 2017-2020

https://aeron.aero

info@aeron.aero

