AIRWIRE & WIRE TOKEN WHITEPAPER
MAY 2018

1

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

TABLE OF CONTENTS

3. Abstract
4. Social Media Networks: A Thriving Market
7. Blockachin Technology: Taking the Market by Storm
9. AirWire: A Unique Combination
a. How It Works
b. Use Cases
i.

Scenario 1: Jill & James

ii. Scenario 2: The Influencer
iii. Scenario 3: The Do-Gooder
c. The AirWire Debit Card
d. The EARN Program
14. WIRE Token
a. Technical
i.

Coin Specifications

ii. Token Specifications
b. WIRE Token Sale
c. Token Allocation
d. Funds Allocation
20. Roadmap 1.0
21. The Team
24. Advisors
26. Risk Factors
30. References

2

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

ABSTRACT
Creating and innovating are innate to humanity. These tenets, coupled with the explosion of technology and Moore’s
Law, have increased the efficiency of that process a hundredfold. The original Ford Model T. Within a century, that Ford
Model T has been distilled and refined into the automobiles of today. Social media has done the same exact thing with
traditional communication methods: distilled and refined them down to how we interact on a daily basis.
What social media has done for communication, the blockchain and more specifically cryptocurrency, has done to the
financial technology sector. This internet innovation has changed how we view transaction handling by making things
faster, more secure, and accessible to everyone. The disruptive power of the blockchain has near limitless potential
because of its adaptability to any situation. The inherent innovation built into its model ensures that there is always a
situation where it would be useful.
By combining these two innovations, social media and the blockchain it gives rise to AirWire, an original and simple to
use platform focused around the idea of enabling its users to send and receive cryptocurrency over existing social media
networks. Simple, quick, and secure are central principles of the AirWire platform. Less than 1% of the 2 billion active
social media users know about cryptocurrency. AirWire is empowering many new users, and businesses as well, with
the limitless potential of the blockchain and cryptocurrency in an effort to teach these 2 billion social media users about
the power of blockchain technology.

3

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

SOCIAL MEDIA NETWORKS: A THRIVING MARKET
Social networks grow their user bases every day and have been for the past decade. In 2019, it is estimated that there
will be roughly 2.77 billion social media users globally, up from 2.46 billion in 2017. Faster internet and the adoption
of mobile devices in developing markets is a large segment of growth in this increase. With over 2 billion users, most
of who do not know about cryptocurrency, an opportunity to create an easy to use platform that introduces these new
users to crypto presents itself. AirWire is a global platform with ability to convert over 2.77 billion social media users into
cryptocurrency adopters.

AirWire’s roadmap (page 20) includes plans to integrate at least 14 of the top 20 social
networks within the next 12 months.

4

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

Worldwide, the increased usage of social networks is due to the popularization of mobile
technologies and also, the increasing availability and affordability of mobile internet.
Mobile social networking is one of the most popular activities on smartphones and tablets,
along with text messaging, taking photos and videos, or playing games.i

5

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

There is no doubt that mobile social networking presents an enormous opportunity to launch a product that empowers
users to interact in new and meaningful ways.

6

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY: TAKING THE MARKET BY STORM
The blockchain is, at itsessence, an encrypted public ledger
designed to keep track of cryptocurrency transactions. Inits
first case use, the blockchain was developed for Bitcoin.
In most circumstances, it works as a secure, electronic
transaction processing and record-keeping system, but it
has numerous applications. This allows various connected
participants within a public or private network, to track the
information, thereby eliminating the need for any kind of
antiquated third-party verification, as is the case with the
traditional banking model.

The increasing adoption of this secure technology in the
financial services sector and anticipated adoption across
the public sector, including healthcare segments, fuels
the need for a cryptocurrency platform that easily allows
parties to instantaneously exchange funds.

The growing demand for simplified business processes that provide transparency,immutability, and faster transactions
are spurring the adoption of Blockchain-as-a-Service.ii An indicative list of companies who have invested in blockchain
technologies includes: Microsoft, IBM, Oracle, Walmart, and Visa.

7

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

increasing demand
for distributed
ledger technology

rising token
sales

increasing
demand for
transparency
demand for
immutability

reduced total
cost of ownership

What does blockchain technology adoption look like?iii

8

demand for faster
transactions

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

increasing
adoption of
Blockchain-asa-Service

AIRWIRE: A UNIQUE COMBINATION
Now, imagine what the combination of the explosive,
communicative power of Social Media and the secure,
immutable Blockchain can achieve: AirWire

“AirWire is a unique platform where users
can send and receive cryptocurrency through

AirWire leverages blockchain technology to apply long

multiple social networks needing only the

overdue and much needed revisions to the way that

receiver’s social media username.”

businesses, groups, and individuals mediate transactions.

Founders of AirWire

AirWire’s inclusion of the social media component is to
change how the world interacts with cryptocurrency.

A. HOW IT WORKS
AirWire is a first of its kind platform designed to enable cryptocurrency to be sent easily, quickly, and securely over
today’s existing social network infrastructure. No prior setup is needed by the recipient, nor any advanced knowledge
of the transaction itself. AirWire allows individuals to send cryptocurrency directly on the platform, through Facebook,
Twitter, Email; with many more platforms to be included in the following months. Pick a celebrity, an influencer, a friend,
or anyone else you wish and send them cryptocurrency on any social network platform. The applications of this platform
are as vast and plentiful as social media user’s interactions are.

To send cryptocurrency to anyone in the
world is executed in 4 simple steps:

SELECT THE SOCIAL MEDIA
PLATFORM THROUGH WHICH
YOU WANT THE RECIEPIENT
TO RECIEVE THE CURRENCY

ENTER THE SOCIAL MEDIA
USERNAME OF THE RECIPIENT

SELECT THE AMOUNT
OF CRYPTOCURRENCY
TO SEND

9

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

Recieving the sent token is even easier:

Receive the cryptocurrency if they have signed
up through the AirWire platform.

OR
Be prompted through an easy sign up process to
receive the cryptocurrency.

The blockchain, and cryptocurrency can seem very
daunting to those who do not know. That is why ease of
use is a priority, and one of our core in today’s blockchain
market. AirWire is the only platform that anyone from one
central place grants consumers the ability to send tokens
over Email, Twitter, Facebook and any other social media
platforms instantaneously.

With multiple social media networks available to our platform, combined with its ease of use, we are
scheduled to surpass the likes of Western Union, PayPal, Venmo, and WeChat, to become the new
leader in the massive global remittance business.

10

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

B. Use Cases
Scenario 1: Jill & James
Jill is checking her Facebook feed to stay informed and connected with friends and family.
Her college classmate James just posted a picture of his recently damaged car from a
fallen tree branch. Jill, sympathizing with James’ misfortune, accesses AirWire and sends
James cryptocurrency through Facebook to help him pay for repairs. James’ & Jill’s mutual
friends see the AirWire post, access AirWire, and send him tokens as well. James is now
stress free and has enough funds to pay for repairs, all thanks to charitable friends and the
AirWire platform.

Scenario 2: The Influencer
Jack has a large following on Twitter where he gives stock picks based on technical analysis.
Amy has been following him waiting for a pick that lines up with her investment strategy.
Amy finally sees one she likes, buys it, and makes a nice return off of Jack’s recommendation.
To show her gratitude for the analysis that Jack provided, Amy accesses AirWire and sends
cryptocurrency straight to Jack through his Twitter account. Jack posts about AirWire and its
opportunity to tip him directly for his expert recommendations. Multiple people see the value
in Jack’s picks and sign up for a AirWire account to further incentivize him. Jack now has an
additional income stream directly from his Twitter account.

Scenario 3: The Do-Gooder
Molly loves all animals and is currently on a mission to Africa to fight Big Game Trophy
Hunting. James missed Molly’s pre-trip post requesting donations for her journey. James
has similar thoughts and views and wants to contribute. Molly is out of the country and
James wants to give her instant access to funds. James, now a crypto enthusiast after a
positive experience from AirWire, has WIRE Tokens left over from the car repair donations
he received. James accesses his AirWire account and sends WIRE straight to Molly’s
Facebook account where she has been updating her progress. James now feels great that
he could help out and Molly has more resources for her cause.

11

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

D. THE AIRWIRE DEBIT CARD

In the next four years, the ecommerce market is set to almost double to 4.5 trillion dollars. Blending social network
integration, global remittance opportunities, and brand recognition with our AirWire Initiative. The AirWire Debit Card,
closes the circle of universal opportunities to send, share, spend, and convert tokens by partnering with a 3rd-party debit
card provider on the blockchain. Its unique program offering of “white label” debit card, allows AirWire to brand our debit
card as the “AirWire Debit Card.” Just as using the AirWire platform to send and receive tokens, the easy AirWire Debit
Card is an easy one-time setup that will provide users the ability to transfer tokens into their desired currency.

Our white label debit card provides options to tailor our
debit card to both the needs of our organization and our
consumers. Our agreement ensures great service, including
quick transactions and importantly complies with the Anti
Money Laundering (AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC)
regulations. Our partnership with the 3rd party debit card
provider accomplishes the goal of making traditional banks
obsolete and dominating the ecommerce market.

12

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

E. THE EARN PROGRAM
The WIRE Token EARN Program rounds out the core features of AirWire. Achieving mass adoption is not a Phase-1
business process. It takes a dynamic business strategy where we can touch and educate the very perimeter of nonadopters on social media. The more avenues we provide for users to experience the platform and possible first encounter
with cryptocurrency, the more we can solidify ourselves as a leader in this emerging market. We have allocated WIRE
tokens directly for this aggressive user acquisition goal.
The AirWire platform contains an “EARN” tokens tab. Once a user links their social media account to the platform, they
can engage the EARN feature, which will provide opportunities to acquire WIRE tokens.
To increase brand visibility and educate potential users on the ability to earn tokens, AirWire will amass a strong and
consistent social media presence through strategic widespread efforts to raise awareness of our platform and benefits
of blockchain technology. This will be achieved through a
series of targeted sponsored ads on various social media
networks, news publications, and websites. In tandem,
we will be focusing on reaching out to financial, tech, and
lifestyle influencers to work on generating content to drive
awareness of the product and offering. This encompasses
the Phase-1 of our user acquisition efforts.
Phase-2, upon amassing new users, is where users will be given the ability to earn a reward through likes, retweets,
shares, or comments on AirWire social media posts. In turn, the platform will automatically recognize this action and
deploy WIRE tokens straight to a user’s AirWire accounts.
Providing opportunities to EARN tokens while expanding our brand recognition to crypto and non-crypto users is the type
of win/win marketing strategies that AirWire will capitalize upon. Tokens, including other cryptocurrencies than WIRE,
accumulated by the AirWire team through multiple revenue streams, will continue to be reallocated to the EARN program
for the life of the platform.

13

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

WIRE TOKEN
Airwire is a blockchain platform powered by the WIRE token.

The WIRE token is a utility token that fuels the AirWire platform. WIRE’s “utility” designation derives from its function
on the platform. Wire is an early banking term, which means payment transfer from one bank account to another. It is
initiated by the payer, meaning the person receiving the funds, does not need to be aware of the transfer in order to
receive money. Today, the term wire transfer is still used all over the world. The WIRE token is the accelerator for social
media transactions. One must own WIRE in their account for the platform to function as it serves dual utility roles:

The platform requires WIRE, in a
form of a transaction fee, to
facilitate the sending process.

+

The WIRE token is the
cryptocurrency that will be sent to
the recipients social media account.

Once tokens are in the receiver’s account, they have a variety of options at their disposal:

Keep WIRE in their
wallet for future use.

Send WIRE to
friends, family or
collegues on social
networks or email.

Make a purchase
utilizing their
AirWire debit card.

WIRE can be sent across all major social networks with the capacity to be divided into any desired amount. Ranging
from less than a penny, up to the full amount you own, the abilities to split, spend, or share these tokens are endless.

14

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

A. TECHNICAL
Coin Specifications

250,000,000 CIRCULATING SUPPLY

30 SECOND BLOCKS

5 CONFIRMATIONS (2.5 MINUTES)

155 CONFIRMATIONS FOR STAKING

35,000 WIRE PER MASTERNODE
BUILT ON BITCOIN CORE 0.10.X. WITH ALL V0.13.2 UPDATES AND DASH CORE V0.12.1 BIP38

ENCRYPTION/DECRYPTION OF PRIVATE KEYS

Masternodes and Staking
WIRE fosters a decentralized and worldwide network by utilizing staking and
masternode implementation. Token holders can earn network rewards (token minting)
by keeping their wallets open and staking or by using 35,000 WIRE tokens for collateral
and creation of a masternode.

15

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

Block Rewards:

16

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

True Privacy
Security and privacy are top priority when it comes to the WIRE token and were one of
the first things AirWire wanted to ensure in its creation. The ZeroCoin protocol has been
integrated into WIRE. This feature allows for transaction anonymous sending, and freedom
from prying eyes.

Seesaw Reward Balance
WIRE uses a variable Seesaw Reward Balance System that dynamically adjusts the block
reward size between masternodes and staking nodes. The seesaw rewards feature helps
to keep a balance between staking and masternode use. This technology was originally
developed by the PIVX team.

Instant Sending
Tokens are sent and confirmed in seconds thanks to the network of decentralized
masternodes. The network allows the transaction to occur without need for the normal
2.5-minute confirmation period.

17

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

B. WIRE TOKEN SALE

AirWire has launched a promising Token Sale. The final round of the sale will run from May 29th – June 4th.
The sale site was located at https://sale.socialwallet.io

Round 1:

Round 2:

Round 3:

Round 4:

Round 5:

Round 6:

25%
BONUS

20%
BONUS

15%
BONUS

10%
BONUS

5%
BONUS

0%
BONUS

The minimum number of tokens one can purchase is set at $100 USD within the cryptocurrency you are using. The
available currencies to purchase WIRE in is Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH) and Litecoin (LTC). There will be a $150,000
USD purchase cap per round. This ensures everyone has the opportunity to acquire tokens and bonuses in each round.
The AirWire Platform went live on April 28th, 2018 and that is when the WIRE Tokens began to be distributed. Any
tokens not sold, will be retained by AirWire, up to 25,000,000 WIRE. If there are more than 25,000,000 remaining after
the sale, AirWire will retain their 25,000,000 and the rest of the supply will be destroyed.

18

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

C. TOKEN ALLOCATION
AirWire has launched a promising Token Sale. The final round of the sale will run from May 29th – June 4th. The sale site
is located at https://sale.socialwallet.io

62.5M
HELD BY
TEAM

250M
187.5M
PUBLIC
SALE

Total Token
Supply @ $0.15

100%

250,000,000

Hard Cap

Tokens Sold
@ $0.15

75%

187,500,000

$28,125,000

Tokens Held
By Team

25%

62,500,000

D. FUNDS ALLOCATION
AirWire has launched a promising Token Sale. The final round of the sale will run from May 29th – June 4th. The sale site
is located at https://sale.socialwallet.io

‹ 20% ›
MARKETING
‹ 60% ›
OPERATIONS &
ENHANCEMENT

‹ 10% ›
AIRWIRE
INITIATIVE

‹ 10% ›
LIQUIDITY
FUND

19

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

ROADMAP

20

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

THE TEAM
Luke Shepard • Founder
Luke is one of three Co-Founders of AirWire Inc. He is also the Lead Developer and sole
creator of the social network integration technology. Luke is a full stack developer who has
created software for many companies like British Telecoms and Vodafone. The monitoring
platform he developed is presently used by over 100 different companies. His area of
expertise is .NET framework with preference for C# programming language. He also is
proficient in Javascript, HTML, CSS, and super set languages like Typescript.

David Hunter • Founder
David is one of three Co-Founders of AirWire Inc. He graduated from Texas Tech
University with a Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering. David has managed
multi-million-dollar projects for Fortune 50 companies. He is also a real estate and
cryptocurrency investor. David worked as a project manager for a community coin and
helped with rebranding and restructuring of the project. The project has seen an increased
value of over 1000% since last summer.

Ken DiCross • Founder
Ken is one of three Co-Founders of AirWire Inc. Blockchain experience includes
Development Manager for BuildTeam which created innovative programs on Steem
including: SteemVoter, SteemSports, and MinnowBooster. Ken created and owns
Coinhawk.com, a progressive auction website for Crypto and Bullion products. Previous
business experience entails operating as the District Manager for a successful hospitality
group in Los Angeles of which he oversaw the profitability of 5 individual multi-milliondollar restaurants. Ken has a BS in Finance from The Ohio State University.

21

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

Jon Leibham
Lead Fontend Developer

Scott Jones
Lead Backend Developer

Jon is the lead frontend Developer/UX-UI Designer for

Scott Jones is the lead backend developer at AirWire. He is

AirWire. He has spent the last three years developing

continuosly building and improving the systems that power

interfaces for web applications for many different industries AirWire’s next generation platform.
ranging from stock trading, marketing, big data, and dating
applications. He primarily works in Node, with HTML, Sass,
and Javascript.

Jurgen Somers
Backend Developer

Daniel Wilson
Blockchain Developer

Jergen is the Backend Developer for AirWire as well as the

Daniel is a backend and blockchain developer. He has

founder and CEO of Summ-IT bvba. He specializes in .NET

worked for many community coins and has had a hand

technologies (C#, VB.NET) from version 1.0 to current.

in some of the earliest alt-coins in existence. Daniel
specializes in masternode coins and enjoys the challenges
these coins can present.

Katelyn Stewart
Graphic Designer
Katelyn is AirWire’s graphic designer. She specializes in visual
branding and marketing and works closely with developers
to produce user interfaces and visual aspects that are both
appealing and intuitive for our users.

22

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

Daniel Wagner
Marketing Manager

Justin Day
Chief Marketing Officer

As the Marketing Manager for AirWire, Daniel utilizes his

Justin is the Chief Marketing Officer for AirWire Inc. Justin has

knowledge and experience of marketing strategies and brand

been in marketing for over 15 years and is also Co-Founder

management to implement campaigns that promote and

and Associate Publisher of the Post Newspaper in Texas

educate audiences about the AirWire platform.

City. Justin is also an avid Real Estate Investor and owner of
House Day Investments which specializes in the acquisition
of both single and multifamily residential complexes.

Wouter van der Baan
Customer Service Manager

Kyle Headley
Technical Service Coordinator

Wouter’s experience in various managerial fields allows

Experienced Leader with a demonstrated history of working

him the expertise to continuously drive AirWire’s user

in the IT and Telecommunications industry. Skilled in Customer

satisfaction upward.

Service Delivery, Continuous Improvement, Technology
Transformation, and IT Service Management. Strong
experience working within Global Technology environments
and leading business enhancing IT evolution

23

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

ADVISORS
Randolph Barr
CISO, Aryaka Networks
More than twenty years of experience and expertise as a Chief Information Security Officer, Information Systems and
Information Technologist, managing global security vision and multi-discipline systems support in Cloud Computing
environments. Outstanding communicator with ability to champion strategic projects at the executive level and win
support for enterprise initiatives. Known for collaborating amongst the senior executive team to develop and implement
global, company-wide information security policy, standards, guidelines, and technical performance measurements.
Participates at company Board of Director meetings covering updates on the Security Program. Developed technical
and business solutions to satisfy customer and stakeholder objectives. Balanced requirements, costs and schedules, and
managed risks; motivated and mentored technical teams.

Barbara Arellano
Financial Analyst, Google
Barbara Arellano is a Financial Analyst at Google’s Brand Finance team in Mountain View, California. Prior to joining Google,
Ms. Arellano worked for Deloitte’s Analytics & Forensic Technology practice as a Data Analytics Senior Consultant and
at Navigant Consulting as a Managing Technology Litigation Consultant. Her technical experience includes the analysis
of relational data sets in Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Access, and Oracle. Her industry experience has been primarily
focused in the Financial Services sector including: global financial services, banking and securities, with broader industry
experience across other industries including: pharmaceuticals, energy and information technology.

Jeff Kirdeikis
Founder, Cryptocurrency Investing Network
Jeff is the founder of the largest quality crypto community in the world, it’s affiliated website ccinews.net and a Top-3
Crypto Podcast. Jeff’s specialty in marketing, media management, and community building has paired well with his
passion and expertise in distributed ledger technology.

Ricardo Ferreria
CEO, BuildTeam
Industrial and Tech Entrepreneur with strong business and family values, seeking to make a difference in the industry.
BuildTeam is a revolutionary blockchain technology company focused on creating leading-edge sidechain services and
custom applications, aimed at enhancing the Steem social network ecosystem as well as other blockchain environments.

24

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

ADVISORS cont’d
Tim Buhker
Principal, Bukher.io
Industrial and Tech Entrepreneur with strong business and family values, seeking to make a difference in the industry.
BuildTeam is a revolutionary blockchain technology company focused on creating leading-edge sidechain services and
custom applications, aimed at enhancing the Steem social network ecosystem as well as other blockchain environments.

Ashley Richardson
Source Alchemy
Ashley is an attorney and entrepreneur who is actively involved in the cryptocurrency community as an investor as well as
legal counsel and advisor to projects and ICOs. Ashley holds a law degree from American University Washington College of
Law, and a MA in International. Ashley’s areas of expertise are international business and strategic business advising.

Derek Hansen
Source Alchemy
Jeff is the founder of the largest quality crypto community in the world, it’s affiliated website ccinews.net and a Top-3
Crypto Podcast. Jeff’s specialty in marketing, media management, and community building has paired well with his
passion and expertise in distributed ledger technology.

Ricardo Ferreria
CEO, BuildTeam
Industrial and Tech Entrepreneur with strong business and family values, seeking to make a difference in the industry.
BuildTeam is a revolutionary blockchain technology company focused on creating leading-edge sidechain services and
custom applications, aimed at enhancing the Steem social network ecosystem as well as other blockchain environments.

25

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

RISK FACTORS
Certain Risks Relating to Purchase, Sale, and Use of Wire Tokens. Important Note: The Wire Tokens are not being
structured or sold as securities or any other form of investment product. Accordingly, none of the information presented
in this Whitepaper is intended to form the basis for any investment decision, and no specific recommendations are
intended. The Company expressly disclaims any and all responsibility for any direct or consequential loss or damage
of any kind whatsoever arising directly or indirectly from: (i) reliance on any information contained herein, (ii) any error,
omission or inaccuracy in any such information or (iii) any action resulting from such information. By purchasing, owning,
and using Wire Tokens, you expressly acknowledge and assume the following risks:
1. Risk of Losing Access to Wire Tokens Due to Loss of Private Key(s), Custodial Error or your Error. A private key,
or a combination of private keys, is necessary to control and dispose of Wire Tokens stored in your digital wallet or vault.
Accordingly, loss of requisite private key(s) associated with your digital wallet or vault storing Wire Tokens will result in
loss of such Wire Tokens. Moreover, any third party that gains access to such private key(s), including by gaining access
to login credentials of a hosted wallet service you use, may be able to misappropriate your Wire Tokens. Any errors or
malfunctions caused by or otherwise related to the digital wallet or vault you choose to receive and store Wire Tokens,
including your own failure to properly maintain or use such digital wallet or vault, may also result in the loss of your Wire
Tokens. Additionally, your failure to precisely follow the procedures set forth in for buying and receiving Wire Tokens,
including, for instance, if you provide an incorrect Coin Receipt Address, or provides an address that is not compatible,
may result in the loss of your Wire Tokens.
2. Risk of Hacking and Security Weaknesses. Hackers or other malicious groups or organizations may attempt to
interfere with the Ecosystem or the Wire Tokens in a variety of ways, including, but not limited to, malware attacks, denial
of service attacks, consensus-based attacks, Sybil attacks, smurfing and spoofing. Furthermore, because the Ecosystem
is based on open-source software, there is a risk that a third party or a member of the Company team may intentionally
or unintentionally introduce weaknesses into the core infrastructure of the Ecosystem, which could negatively affect the
Ecosystem and the Wire Tokens, including the utility of the Wire Tokens for obtaining Services.
3. Risks Associated with Markets for Wire Tokens. The Wire Tokens are intended to be used solely within the
Ecosystem and the Company will not support or otherwise facilitate any secondary trading or external valuation of
Wire Tokens. This restricts the contemplated avenues for using Wire Tokens to the provision or receipt of Services, and
could therefore create illiquidity risk with respect to any Wire Tokens you own. Even if secondary trading of Wire Tokens
is facilitated by third-party exchanges, such exchanges may be relatively new and subject to little or no regulatory
oversight, making them more susceptible to fraud or manipulation. Furthermore, to the extent that third parties do
ascribe an external exchange value to Wire Tokens (e.g., as denominated in a digital or fiat currency), such value may be
extremely volatile and diminish to zero.
4. Risk of Uninsured Losses. Unlike bank accounts or accounts at some other financial institutions, Wire Tokens are
uninsured unless you specifically obtain private insurance to insure them. Thus, in the event of loss or loss of utility value,

26

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

there is no public insurer, such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or private insurance arranged by Company,
to offer recourse to you.
5. Risks Associated with Uncertain Regulations and Enforcement Actions. The regulatory status of the Wire Tokens
and distributed ledger technology is unclear or unsettled in many jurisdictions. It is difficult to predict how or whether
regulatory agencies may apply existing regulation with respect to such technology and its applications, including the
Ecosystem and the Wire Tokens. It is likewise difficult to predict how or whether legislatures or regulatory agencies
may implement changes to law and regulation affecting distributed ledger technology and its applications, including
the Ecosystem and the Wire Tokens. Regulatory actions could negatively impact the Ecosystem and the Wire Tokens in
various ways, including, for purposes of illustration only, through a determination that the purchase, sale and delivery of
the Wire Tokens constitutes unlawful activity or that the Wire Tokens are a regulated instrument that require registration
or licensing of those instruments or some or all of the parties involved in the purchase, sale and delivery thereof. The
Company may cease operations in a jurisdiction in the event that regulatory actions, or changes to law or regulation,
make it illegal to operate in such jurisdiction, or commercially undesirable to obtain the necessary regulatory approval(s)
to operate in such jurisdiction.
6. Risks Arising from Taxation. The tax characterization of Wire Tokens is uncertain. You must seek your own tax advice
in connection with purchasing Wire Tokens, which may result in adverse tax consequences to you, including withholding
taxes, income taxes and tax reporting requirements.
7. Risk of Competing Ecosystems. It is possible that alternative ecosystems could be established that utilize the same
open source code and protocol underlying the Ecosystem and attempt to facilitate services that are materially similar to
the Services. The Ecosystem may compete with these alternatives, which could negatively impact the Ecosystem and
Wire Tokens, including the utility of the Wire Tokens for obtaining Services.
8. Risk of Insufficient Interest in the Ecosystem or Distributed Applications. It is possible that the Ecosystem will not
be used by a large number of individuals, companies and other entities or that there will be limited public interest in
the creation and development of distributed ecosystems (such as the Ecosystem) more generally. Such a lack of use or
interest could negatively impact the development of the Ecosystem and therefore the potential utility of the Wire Tokens,
including the utility of the Wire Tokens for obtaining Services.
9. Risks Associated with the Development and Maintenance of the Ecosystem. The Ecosystem is still under
development and may undergo significant changes over time. Although we intend for the Wire Tokens and Ecosystem
to function, and intend to take commercially reasonable steps toward those ends, we may have to make changes to
the specifications of the Wire Tokens or Ecosystem for any number of legitimate reasons. Moreover, we have no control
over how other participants will use the Ecosystem, what products or services will be offered through the Ecosystem by
third parties, or how third-party products and services will utilize Wire Tokens (if at all). This could create the risk that
the Wire Tokens or Ecosystem, as further developed and maintained, may not meet your expectations at the time of
purchase. Furthermore, despite our good faith efforts to develop and participate in the Ecosystem, it is still possible that
the Ecosystem will experience malfunctions or otherwise fail to be adequately developed or maintained, which may

27

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

negatively impact the Ecosystem and Wire Tokens, and the potential utility of the Wire Tokens, including the utility of the
Wire Tokens for obtaining Services.
10. Risk of an Unfavorable Fluctuation of ETH or BTC Value. If the value of ETH or BTC fluctuates unfavorably during
or after the Sale, we may not be able to fund development, or may not be able to develop or maintain the Ecosystem
in the manner that it intended. In addition to the usual market forces, there are several potential events which could
exacerbate the risk of unfavorable fluctuation in the value of ETH and/or BTC, including uncertainties created by the lack
of resolution to the bitcoin scaling debate, the possibility of a so-called “Hard Fork” of bitcoin if one of the competing
camps in the scaling debate decides to force the issue; another DAO-like attack on the Ethereum network; or significant
security incidents or market irregularities at one or more of the major cryptocurrency exchanges.
11. Risk of Dissolution of the Company or Ecosystem. It is possible that, due to any number of reasons, including, but
not limited to, an unfavorable fluctuation in the value of ETH and/or BTC (or other cryptographic and fiat currencies),
decrease in the Wire Tokens’ utility (including their utility for obtaining Services), the failure of commercial relationships,
or intellectual property ownership challenges, the Ecosystem may no longer be viable to operate or the Company may
dissolve.
12. Risks Arising from Lack of Governance Rights. Because Wire Tokens confer no governance rights of any kind
with respect to the Ecosystem or the Company, all decisions involving the Company’s products or services within
the Ecosystem or the Company itself will be made by the Company at its sole discretion, including, but not limited to,
decisions to discontinue its products or services in the Ecosystem, to create and sell more Wire Tokens for use in the
Ecosystem, or to sell or liquidate the Company. These decisions could adversely affect the Ecosystem and the utility of
any Wire Tokens you own, including their utility for obtaining Services.
13. Unanticipated Risks. Cryptographic Wire Tokens such as the DC are a new and untested technology. In addition to
the risks included herein, there are other risks associated with your purchase, possession, and use of the Wire Tokens,
including unanticipated risks. Such risks may further materialize as unanticipated variations or combinations of the risks
discussed in this document.
14. Risks Arising from Copyright Infringement. It is our intent to partner with firms to protect content rights. However,
there is no way to fully ensure indemnification from claims that may or may not have any basis in fact. Such claims could
result in negative press for the company, which could negatively impact the Ecosystem and Wire Tokens, including the
utility of the Wire Tokens for obtaining Services.

28

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

No Cancellation and No Refund
All WIRE token orders are deemed final. The consumer acknowledges that they are fully aware that they will not be
entitled to claim any full or partial reimbursement under any circumstances whatsoever.
Notes on Forward-Looking Statements
All claims and statements made in this AirWire whitepaper, AirWire website, press releases made by AirWire, also any
oral statements made by AirWire team members of agents acting on behalf of AirWire that are not an accomplished fact
may represent so called forward-looking statements.
Some of these forward-looking statements may be considered such by containing the following terms: “will”, “anticipate”,
“plan”, “aim”, “target”, “expect”, ”estimate”, “envision”, “intend”, “project”, “may”, “believe”, “if”, or any other such terms.
Further, the terms listed above are not necessary to identify a forward-looking statement. All statements that include,
but are not limited to any financial projections, estimates, plans or possible trends, risks, as well as future prospects of
cryptocurrencies should be considered as forward-looking statements as well.
These forward-looking statements are not yet accomplished facts and AirWire does not take responsibility and cannot
guarantee that the future results will correspond with the abovementioned forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are also provided as-is and AirWire takes no responsibility for updating these
forward-looking statements, should any information relevant to the pertaining forward-looking statements become
available in the future.
No information contained in this whitepaper should be considered as a promise, representation of commitment or
undertaking as to the future performance of the AirWire platform, WIRE token or any other component of the AirWire
ecosystem.
Utility Token
Our legal counsel Thompson Bukher LLP has analyzed our token under the SEC v. Howey factors and has concluded
that, under those factors, our token would not qualify as a security. A copy of our Howey Memorandum will be provided
to you upon request which can be made to contact@airwire.info.

29

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

REFERENCES
i

Statista, “Mobile social media - Statistics & Facts”,

https://www.statista.com/topics/2478/mobile-social-networks/
ii

Markets & Markets, “Blockchain Market by Provider, Application, Organization Size, Industry Vertical, and

Region - Global Forecast to 2022”, https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/blockchain-technologymarket-90100890.html
iii

Accenture Consulting, “Blockchain Technology: Preparing for Change”,

https://www.accenture.com/us-en/insight-investment-bank-challenges-blockchain-technology

30

WHITEPAPER v.2.2 — May 2018

