THE
PROMETHEUS
PROTOCOL
White Paper v1.0
Rachid Ajaja
Dr. Amber Ghaddar
Matthijs De Vries

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Table of Contents
FOUNDERS’ VISION .........................................................................................................................3
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ...................................................................................................................4
BUSINESS IN THE AGE OF GLOBALIZATION: PARTS, PROBLEMS, & POTENTIAL .......6
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE FOR INTEGRITY AND TRUST ..............................................................................6
ROBUST DATA GOVERNANCE FOR PRIVACY AND SECURITY .........................................................................8
EMPOWERING ASSETS WITH TOKENIZATION .............................................................................................. 13
PAIN POINTS NOT YET ADDRESSED ............................................................................................................. 16
In Traditional Legal-Financial Structures ...................................................................................... 16
TOTAL ADDRESSABLE MARKET - POTENTIAL AND OPPORTUNITIES ....................................................... 20
THE PROMETHEUS PROTOCOL – COMPLIANCE, GOVERNANCE, AND DIGITIZED
ISSUANCE ........................................................................................................................................ 27
SOLUTION OVERVIEW...................................................................................................................................... 27
LAYERS OF THE PROMETHEUS PROTOCOL ................................................................................................... 28
THE DATA GOVERNANCE LAYER FOR DATA GOVERNANCE 3.0 ............................................................... 30
Data Registry................................................................................................................................................ 30
Data Fragmentation and Storage Architecture ........................................................................... 30
SECURITY ISSUANCE & LIFECYCLE LAYER: DIGITIZATION OF ASSETS ..................................................... 40
TECHNICAL ARCHITECTURE..................................................................................................... 43
ACTORS WITHIN THE PROMETHEUS PROTOCOL.......................................................................................... 43
FUNCTIONAL COMPONENTS - DEFINITIONS AND ROLES ............................................................................ 44
INTER-COMPONENT COMMUNICATIONS ...................................................................................................... 45
Traceability of Transactions and User Data .................................................................................. 45
Encrypted Storage of Users’ Legal Documents .............................................................................. 46
Document Verification Status Validation ........................................................................................ 46
User Validation ............................................................................................................................................ 48
Regulatory and Compliance Services................................................................................................. 49
SCHEMATIC REPRESENTATION – PROOF OF CONCEPT ............................................................................... 50
1

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
CONTRACT ARCHITECTURE - PROOF OF CONCEPT...................................................................................... 52
On-Chain - Off-Chain Data Split ........................................................................................................... 54
USE CASES ....................................................................................................................................... 55
A REGULATED SECURITIES OFFERING .......................................................................................................... 55
CONSORTIA FOR PRIVATE BANKS AND WEALTH MANAGERS ................................................................... 60
CONSOLIDATED REPORTING OF FINANCIAL EXPOSURE FOR REGULATION ............................................. 62
A TRULY COMPLIANT OPEN FINANCE SOLUTION ....................................................................................... 63
EMBEDDED DATA TRACEABILITY AND TOKENIZED CONTENT MANAGEMENT ...................................... 64
THE TEAM BEHIND THE PROMETHEUS PROTOCOL ......................................................... 65
EXECUTIVE AND MANAGEMENT TEAM ......................................................................................................... 65
STRATEGIC ADVISORS ..................................................................................................................................... 66
PARTNERS ......................................................................................................................................................... 69
TABLE OF FIGURES ...................................................................................................................... 70
REFERENCES .................................................................................................................................. 71

2

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Founders’ Vision

“Prometheus protocol aims to be an open protocol
that can be used by all the various actors and create
a global decentralized capital market with a global
governance fully compliant with local and crossborder regulations.”

3

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Executive Summary
The Prometheus Protocol is a comprehensive and layered architecture to facilitate
cross-border transactions in capital markets in a completely regulated and compliant
manner. It provides the framework to digitize all forms of assets in seamless
compliance with the regulations in effect. The Prometheus Protocol is comprised of
the following three layers:
● Data Governance Layer - To ensure that in-architecture data management
complies with data privacy laws and the quality of data does not deteriorate
over time or over distance.
● Cross Border Regulatory Compliance Layer (CBRCL) - To ensure
automated validation of transactions and their compliance with applicable
regulations. Trusted Legal Entities add/amend transaction governing logic after
consensus to ensure consonance with regulation
● Securities’ Issuance and Lifecycle Management Layer - To enable an end
to end regulated issuance and management of the lifecycle of the issued
digitized security
The Prometheus Protocol build on top of Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLTs) to
achieve:
● Transparency in Data Governance
● Security in Transactions
● Compliance to Regulations
at the institutional level and top-down adherence to compliance and regulatory
requirements across jurisdictions via its CBRCL.
The Prometheus Protocol leverages the best of ‘code is law’ and ‘Law is by the People’
philosophies. It provides templatized smart contract driven logic to automate
transaction validation and to ensure their adherence to regulation. It also provides for
upgradeability of this logic to stay aligned to their real-world regulatory counterparts
that are amended by legislatures from time to time.
The Prometheus Protocol heralds the age of true ‘Open Finance’ with robust Data
Governance where, users won’t be required to undergo KYC checks at every financial
institution but have complete sovereignty over their data by enabling their storage in
an encrypted manner. This prevents unauthorized usage and access while enabling
the users to request its deletion at any time.

4

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
Banking consortia can create private channels to enable faster communication and
management of operations across borders. They can also create unified procedural
internal regulations compliant to the regulatory directives and regulations of the
various jurisdictions of operations.
Entities looking to unlock unbankable assets or to simply digitize assets can:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Create new issue
Create custom rules for subscription
Zero Knowledge Proof verification of prospective investors’ eligibility
File prospectuses, term-sheets, and cap tables etc in a paperless fashion
Maintain asset ownership records in a secure and tamper-resistant manner
Enable cross-border trades of digitized securities while still being compliant

Overall, the Prometheus Protocol is envisaged to be a multi-touchpoint, multi-party,
and multi-stakeholder driven system of layers that are governed by logical smart
contracts, compliant with the regulatory requirements and possessing the ability
to upgrade themselves on regulatory amendments as directed by the amended
law texts and actioned by the compliance-monitoring entities on the Prometheus
Protocol.

5

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Business in the Age of Globalization: Parts,
Problems, & Potential
Globalization led to the development of a common set of mutually agreeable rules
between countries/jurisdictions looking to leverage faster integration of businesses
across geographies and jurisdictions while ensuring traceability and auditability to
prevent criminal activities such as terror financing and money laundering.

Regulatory Compliance for Integrity and Trust
Take the case of the metric units of measurement (such as kilogram, metre, and
seconds etc) as a parallel. A majority of the countries agreed on a common definition
of measurement units so that one metre in Australia would be the same as one metre
in Canada.

Figure 1: Components of Compliance (Source: E&Y)

The world of Business and Finance took these concepts and came up with their own
protocols that facilitated faster, simpler, and non-redundant transactions according to
the laws governing business and finance in various countries. These formed the
building blocks of a global regulatory compliance protocol. Thus, when a protocol
adheres to the requirements of the laws of the land, it is said to be regulatory compliant
(see Figure 1).
Regulatory Authorities routinely come up with frameworks to enable legitimate
businesses to comply easily with their laws. Laws change with time and therefore
regulatory compliance requirements must change as well. For example, the arrival of
credit cards led to the formation of a new standard – PCI DSS (Payment Card
6

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
Industry Data Security Standard) created by the Payment Card Industry Security
Standards Council to help prevent credit card fraud and bolster information security.

Figure 2: Concerns in Compliance (Source: CB Insights)

Similarly, the arrival of cryptocurrencies led jurisdictions across the world to rethink
concentrating power in institutions. Post the initial fears, the banking institutions now
view Blockchain technologies as a solution to their own woes regarding:
● Transparency;
● Regulatory compliance across diverse jurisdictions (See Figure 2) and;
● most importantly, better servicing their customers by enabling faster
transactions, lower risks (counterparty, operation etc..) with overall much lower
costs.
The technological front has been highly productive and has provided specialized
Blockchains (a subset of Distributed Ledger Technologies) to address the problems
faced by the modern banking and financial systems stressed under the rapidly
increasing number of people availing banking services and the exponential growth in

7

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
securities. The rising tide of globalisation (peppered with state nationalisms) makes it
harder to arrive at a consensus as to who gets to draw the line and where.
Ironically, breaking this impasse is exactly what the Blockchain promises to deliver –
make collusion impossible and foster greater transparency across the board.
With transparency achieved, the next step in compliance with regulation is a suitable
data governance structure. It shall ensure that the collection, processing, and storage
of data is aligned to the best practices for privacy and to the relevant regulations in
applicable jurisdictions.

Robust Data Governance for Privacy and Security
What is Data Governance?
Data Governance is the collecting, storage, processing, and the overall management
of data of users, legal entities, transactions and everything in between. The key aim
of data governance is to comply with consumer-protection regulations such as GDPR,
MiFID II and others while also ensuring that high data quality and security persist
throughout the entire data lifecycle.
Just as there are laws to govern what we, as a people, can and cannot do, data
governance is used to create rules for how and by who can a particular piece of data
be accessed, processed, and transmitted.
As data moves from physical books to digital books, data governance policies protect
data from:
● Unauthorized Access
● Misuse and Identity Theft
● Manipulation and Subversion
In a real-world scenario, a financial institution onboards a new client after a strict and
lengthy due diligence that can be done in-house but most of the time is outsourced to
a third party (KYC provider). The KYC provider receives and processes a form for
verification and sends back the result to the financial institution. Transaction history
and record-keeping is managed by yet another provider.
Seamless communication between the above is maintained by a fourth technology
provider that serves as the conduit. This technology provider may also outsource
certain functions to lighten their workload. Hence, data is received, processed, and
stored by multiple agencies in multiple jurisdictions.

8

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
Any leaks in this process can lead to severe data breaches and expose personal
information of thousands, if not millions, of unsuspecting users. The recent Experian
data breach1 is just one such example.
Regulators and governments in various jurisdictions understood the need for and
came up with robust data governance policies, regulations, and directives to protect
their citizens from identity fraud. At the national levels, countries such as Singapore
came up with PDPA laws2 to prevent the data of their citizens from being carried out
of their jurisdictions.
Where Does Current Data Governance Falter?
Today, businesses have administrative offices in one jurisdiction and branches in
several others (example: Banks), data localisation laws came up short and
transnational regulations such as GDPR gained traction.
However, such a system still fails (See Figure 3) to provide full autonomy to the users
with respect to their data. The Open Banking initiatives seen in the European and
certain Southeast Asian jurisdictions which enable users’ financial and other data to
be shared with third party developers or other financial institutions, in order to be used
to the benefit of these users is a step in the right direction. However, they are limited
in scope.

Figure 3: Traditional Investment Process (Source: MuleSoft)

While PSD23 mandates opening up data to third parties’ APIs, the Open Banking
initiatives enables a standardized mechanism for sharing it. A key concern is the fact
that PSD2 does not specify any standards for APIs which will most likely result in banks
creating their own versions of APIs. This will cause third parties to create different
channels for accessing different APIs and that’s a security flaw.4
Potential of Robust Data Governance
Figure SEQ Figure \* ARABIC 3: Existing Compliance Architecture
1

https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/interviews/experian-breach-lessons-learned-i-2936
https://www.pdpc.gov.sg/Legislation-and-Guidelines/Personal-Data-Protection-Act-Overview
3
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2015/2366/oj
4
https://www.globalbankingandfinance.com/psd2-the-challenges-facing-the-banks-when-it-comes-tothird-party-application-data-access/
2

9

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

To provide greater autonomy to users with respect to their data and increase their trust
in the system (See Figure 4), the institutions need to move from open banking to open
finance (cross-border sharing of data in a regulated and compliant manner). Where
even open banking is non-existent, open finance can seem unattainable.

Figure 4: Regulation, Trust, and Sentiment (Source E&Y)

10

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

This is where distributed ledger technologies can step in and forge mechanisms that
can provide seamless and regulated data governance at a fraction of the cost. Open
finance with distributed ledger technologies can provide:

●
●
●
●

Operational Transparency
Blockchain Role Based Access Control to prevent misuse
Tamper-Proof Automatic Bookkeeping via Blockchain Ledger
Consensus Building Among Regulators

Thus, robust data governance requires not centralized and siloed pockets of data
storage cells but:
●
●
●
●

Decentralized data storage
Role-Based access to qualified entities (like financial institutions)
Tamper-resistance
Retention of data quality

Financial Institutions that require absolute control over their data for their customers’
privacy concerns can also leverage Blockchain/DLTs. They can create a permissioned
access yet transparent flows within their private environments to enable better security
with greater in-house accessibility.
Decentralizing Data Governance
Recent breaches, combined with a growing number of real and alleged misdeeds by
several large technology and data companies—including tax evasion, manipulating
users, monopolistic behaviour and market abuse, cooperation with legally
questionable government surveillance, fostering abusive work cultures, and facilitating
crimes such as election tampering and human trafficking—have raised high levels of
concern.5
On decentralization, one banking executive described its promise thus: “Every bank,
exchange and clearing house, we all have our own sets of the same data, which get
out of sync and have to be updated and reconciled. The distributed ledger is the first
technology that could implement a shared golden copy of that data.” 6
The key benefits of decentralized data governance lie in:

5
6

EY-securing-the-financial-future-with-data-governance
EY-securing-the-financial-future-with-data-governance

11

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
● Access Accurate Data from Multiple Locations - The ‘Global State’ of the
Blockchain as the one true copy brings trust in the data without the need for a
trusted intermediary.
●

Transaction Automation - Instead of intermediaries, lines of code (smart
contracts) become the executors of action items such as transfer of funds.
There is no longer the need for human interference in the validation or
processing of the personal information of either the sender, the recipient or the
transaction.

●

Security, Reliability, and Immutability - Fudging and data manipulation become
practically impossible as the Blockchain resists any change to its ‘Global State’
unless agreed by consensus.

Decentralized data governance removes the threats of hacks on centralized sources
by eliminating centralized sources altogether. It is also compatible with Data Privacy
laws such as GDPR due to its ability to anonymize all personally identifiable
information (PIIs) transmitted across devices, jurisdictions, or channels, while
segregating data ownership.

12

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Empowering Assets with Tokenization
Securities’ ownership, since its origin, has been pieces of paper that were legally
enforceable. The standardized security documents were easy to understand for the
courts of law. With regulations in place, it was easy to resolve disputes. Technological
advances, and mainly the exponential increase in securities volume, drove the
dematerialization of these documents. These now “paperless” book-entry securities
are not only exchanged, held but also issued electronically through an accounting
entry in the issue account held by the Central Security Depository.
This enabled faster trading as the sale/purchase of securities did not require an actual
transfer of the security documents but just needed a new entry into the book under the
new legal holder account.
Tokenization of assets emerged as a viable alternative, at least among certain
sections of technologists. They envisaged tokenized assets to be the unshackling of
the siloed nature of asset ownership. On the compliance front though, tokenized
securities falter, on paper and in practice.
There are these unanswered questions such as:
● If regulations change tomorrow, how to incorporate them into a tokenized
security?
● How to comply with regulatory authorities in terms of KYC, DD and AML?
● How to enable dispute resolution mechanisms?
● How to enforce a transaction or reverse it
There are two ways by which existing players have attempted to answer them:
● Bake regulation into the token - which veers into ‘code is law’ territory and
implies that to amend the regulatory code within the token, a new token will
have to be issued.
● Immutable regulations into the smart contracts - which injects
unchangeable smart contract logic between regulators and legal owners of
tokenized securities, defeating the purpose of decentralization and being a step
back instead of forward.
This brings us to digitized securities - a Prometheus Protocol innovation that marries
the best features of traditional securities and tokenized securities.
A digitized security is a token representing a traditional security that sits in the issuer
account of a traditional CSD, the token is the tradable component and features all the
13

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
benefits of a tokenized security while streamlining most processes of a traditional
security lifecycle. Digitized securities are the next step in the dematerialisation of not
only the security, but the various processes linked to its issuance, trading, custody,
clearing and settlement. Only when Digital CSDs become a commonly acceptable
(and authorized) solution, can we start implementing tokenized securities. The
Prometheus Protocol is fully adaptable to both cases.

Figure 5: A Collaborative Compliant Ecosystem (Source E&Y)

14

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
It is pertinent to note that FINMA (the Capital Markets regulator in Switzerland) still
does not allow digital CSDs while other countries such as Canada do. This is a good
example to showcase the flexibility of Prometheus Protocol’s digitized securities as
they can be held in both, traditional depositories, as well as, digital depositories. Thus,
on the Prometheus Protocol, investing, trading and managing tokenized securities is
not dependent on the presence of digital CSDs in a jurisdiction. Cross-Border
compliance is achieved not by reinventing the wheel but by enhancing and
strengthening collaboration between actors. (See Figure 5)
On the question of regulatory compliance, Prometheus Protocol’s digitized securities
are built upon a layer of upgradeable smart contracts which provide the facility of being
amendable and continuously stay in sync with regulatory updates.
This architecture of digitized securities also answers a key question plaguing
essentially all cryptocurrencies -- Can you reverse invalid transactions? In the event
of court rulings etc, securities might be required to change hands without the willing
concurrence of one party. Digitized securities, with complete compliance and oversight
by depositories, digital depositories, digital custodians, and regulators are
architecturally capable of giving effect to legal and regulatory rulings -- a key
component of compliance.

15

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Pain Points Not Yet Addressed
Following the Great Financial Crisis of 2008 which wiped off tens of trillions of dollars
from the market within months, the interest in decentralization assumed greater
acceptance. However, the notion that globally trusted institutions (such as banks)
could be replaced by truly trustless systems, is inherently flawed in its assumption.
The financial institutions that were created and maneuvered with governmental
support and oversight have become paragons of credit creation and wealth
management. Strict controls and adherence to compliance frameworks makes them
some of the most secure entities in the world of finance. These need to be involved in
upcoming frameworks as the most experienced players instead of removing them from
the process. Decentralized ledger technologies that fill the gaps and clear the opacities
that crept into the financial systems come with their own set of challenges.
Prometheus Protocol addresses the following problems faced by actors on both sides
of the coin by bringing them together as the connecting link that bridges the best of
both worlds:

In Traditional Legal-Financial Structures
Regulatory Authorities – Local Jurisdiction in a Global Market
Turf wars aside, the regulatory bodies are finding it increasingly difficult to implement
their mandate as the world grows smaller. Take the example of the Bitcoin for example.
If I send you a Bitcoin today, it is completely off the records of the regulators.
So, what happens in the event of a monetary dispute regarding this bitcoin? The
regulatory authorities will be unable to enforce their mandate and judgements simply
because bitcoin infrastructure does not fall under the explicit mandate of these
regulatory authorities.
Similarly, there is no KYC performed on either you or me before we transacted that
bitcoin. Even on most centralized exchanges (outside the US), KYC is as rudimentary
as asking people to take a selfie while holding a government document. This is not
really KYC. That is in direct contravention to FATF7 guidelines on preventing money
laundering and terror financing. Also, the island-isation of data makes it near
impossible for regulatory authorities to access/source data from other jurisdictions.
Even within the same jurisdiction, something as small as device or format
incompatibility renders cooperation difficult.
7

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_Action_Task_Force_on_Money_Laundering

16

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Financial Institutions – Damned if you Do, Damned if you Don’t
Caught in the middle of the crossfire, banking institutions, throughout history, have
been judged too harshly due to the simple fact – they’re in the business of Money. The
observed increase in the cost of the compliance function (See Figure 6) over the last
10 years is no longer sustainable, especially at a time when most organizations are
trying to streamline their cost base to protect profits and growth.
The costs of compliance are manifold.
Banks need to:
● Verify and validate user data and transaction history
● Store the data and history in a secure environment to prevent unauthorized
access
● Enable robust data governance to allow data access to entities which need it
The cost for each of these activities adds up to over millions of dollars annually8. Even
after incurring these costs, the institutions grapple with security issues and
vulnerabilities due to the absence of industry-wide standards for validation, storage,
and retrieval.
With security vulnerabilities come liabilities and according to a Thomson Reuters
Culture and Conduct Risk 2018 survey, 70% of compliance senior practitioners believe
that this liability is only going to rise in the years to come. This will necessitate an
increase in budgetary allocation and 61% of the surveyed practitioners believe so too.

8

https://legal.thomsonreuters.com/content/dam/ewp-m/documents/legal/en/pdf/reports/cost-of-compliancespecial-report-2018.pdf

17

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure 6: Compliance Maturity Assessment (Source: E&Y)

Securities Trading Markets – Resisting Globalization
Following dematerialization (also called Demat), the paper-form securities were
replaced by book-entry securities. This makes the book-keeper responsible for
maintaining correct records of trades. It presents two problems, namely:
● Bookkeepers are tied to one jurisdiction and limit the tradability of the securities
● Bookkeepers become the single points of failure in the trade cycle
Under the existing system, the depository in jurisdiction A is a separate virtual
container from the depository in jurisdiction B. Thus, if I want to sell you securities,
unless we both use the same depository, the process can take a long time, with a
higher risk of failure.
Figure SEQ Figure \* ARABIC 6: Compliance Maturity Assessment (Source: E&Y)

18

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
In Decentralized Ecosystems
Absence of Regulations – The Virtual Wild West
To put it simply, the absence of regulatory controls pretty much implies the absence
of redressal mechanisms. The players tried workarounds such as performing ‘their
versions of KYC’ but that doesn’t offer even a shred of what actual KYC provides.
Here, the identity check is as rudimentary as asking users to click a selfie while holding
up a government-issued document. This is validated manually and is not acceptable
to most compliant institutions.
Additionally, the storage of questionably collected personal data in questionable
jurisdictions and with questionable security infrastructure, raises legitimate concerns.
Cryptocurrency exchanges getting hacked and getting their funds pilfered and user
data stolen is no longer a novelty. Simply put: What can be built can be hacked. Thus,
regulatory oversight is important from the perspective of legal recourse.
The absence of regulatory oversight also enabled the installation of several
crowdfunding campaigns (better known as ICO9) that ended up either getting cease
and desist notices from authorities after raising hundreds of millions or had the
Founders dropping off the radar with whatever sums they raised.
Cons in the Name of Consensus – Not Tolerating Faults
When a law changes (also called regulatory change), the smart contracts, codebase,
and/or tokens that were hard coded with the old set of laws (instructions) must either
be modified or be completely replaced with the upgrade. This is inherently challenging
in decentralized ecosystems since not all actors might be available at the same time
to fully participate in the voting process, either for or against.
This is extremely important in architectures that ‘claim to be 100% compliant’ since
that claim is underpinned on the belief that the code/instructions fed into their systems
are also set in stone on the law books. History has never been kind to such rigidities.
Human Errors and PEBKAC10 – Reversibility is not Entertained
In a non-decentralized world, human errors are rarely punishable, unlike in a
decentralized world. If I send money to the wrong address, it’s lost. Forever. Will this
foster adoption? No.

9

ICO = Initial Coin Offering
PEBKAC stands for Problem Exists Between Keyboard and Chair meaning problem is due to user’s
error.
10

19

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
There is a need for enabling reversal of transactions performed unintentionally but this
faces stiff denial from the radical proponents of decentralization.
Even in the centralized solutions that do feature legal recourse (such as centralized
crypto exchanges, there is no mechanism to reverse faulty transactions once the funds
are transferred from the centralized exchanges’ ecosystems to something like a cold
wallet.
Securities trading, on the other hand, have mechanisms to reverse and therefore
nullify transactions baked into their system. These solutions, however important, are
currently not available in the nascent tokenisation space.
What is needed is a compliance layer that houses legal and compliance entities that:
● Perform their mandates transparently
● Adhere to the legal compliance requirements of jurisdictions
● Process customer issues instantly, with minimal costs
Practically, transactions should be enforceable and should be reversible, at least,
under legal direction without the presence of a trusted intermediary. This is a classic
catch 22 situation. If you do not have a trusted intermediary, you cannot reverse
transactions. If you have an intermediary, you should not have to trust it.
The emergence of zero-knowledge proof systems (especially zk STARK11) promises
both these counter-positioned features. However, these systems are still in their early
stages of implementation with nil to no acceptability within the larger banking and
investment sectors.

Total Addressable Market - Potential and Opportunities
The Prometheus Protocol is comprised of three layers that collectively enable the
following functions:
1. Data Governance
2. Cross-Border Regulatory Compliance
3. Regulated end-to-end Issuance & Securities Lifecycle
Thus, for better comprehension, the market potential is also divided into these three
heads.
Market Potential of Data Governance
11

https://docs.ethhub.io/ethereum-roadmap/layer-2-scaling/zk-starks/

20

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure 7: Market Growth (2019-2024) (Source: Market Intelligence)

The data governance market is expected to register a CAGR of over 21.44%, during
the forecast period, 2019 - 2024, and it is expected to reach a value of USD 4.35 billion
by 202412. According to EOL IT Services, the biggest challenges in Data Governance
is employee compliance, i.e., ensuring that employees comply with overall data
strategy, something often borne out by a lack of understanding rather than a lack of
desire. Thus, as data creation continues to grow at over 40% per year13, the need for
customer data privacy is only expected to continue growing.
The region of Asia-Pacific is projected to be the fastest-growing region for the data
governance market (See Figure 7), owing to the growing technology expenditures in
economies, such as China, India, Singapore, and Australia. The demand for costeffective data management and governance solutions and services among banking
institutions and small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are further driving the
demand for the data governance market in the region.
The European and the North American markets continue to be the flag bearer to rapid
technology adoption and see the highest potential in terms of the absolute value of
data governance technologies across all continents.
Market Potential of Cross-Border Regulatory Compliance
There are three broad categories of cross border regulation:
12
13

Figure SEQ Figure \* ARABIC 7: Data Governance Market Growth (Source: Market
Intelligence)

https://www.mordorintelligence.com/industry-reports/data-governance-market
https://www.forbes.com/sites/rkulkarni/2019/02/07/big-data-goes-big/#5a6949e820d7

21

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

1. Passporting - Common rules for member jurisdictions
2. National Treatment - Signatories treated as local market players
3. Recognition - Harmonious laws created by members
The issue of regulatory divergence on examination by the OECD and the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC) shows that the cost of regulatory divergence was
significant or very significant to the financial performance of 75% of the institutions
surveyed14.

Figure 8: Transparency in Data Flow (Source: OECD)

Growth markets springing up around the world can mean a big opportunity for
Figure to
SEQ
Figure \* ARABIC
8: Transparency
Data Flow8).
(Source:
businesses willing
embrace
globalization
(SeeinFigure
The OECD)
Business Reality
Check confirms that for the majority of business leaders, managing – not avoiding –
cross-border regulation is the answer. Less than a quarter of business leaders seek
to avoid cross-border regulations by reducing their global footprint.15

According to IFAC, businesses and banking institutions continue to view global
harmonious laws created on the basis of cooperation and operational transparency as
better than those created by international regulatory bodies. It is because the member
countries have started to show a tendency towards focusing on domestic-first as
opposed to the unwritten mandate of international bodies to create single market
economies.

14
15

https://www.ifac.org/publications-resources/regulatory-divergence-costs-risks-and-impacts-0
http://35.170.55.184/in-brief-cross-border-regulations

22

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
Market Potential of Regulated end-to-end Asset Tokenization Lifecycle
Management
Capital markets are still in the early phases
of the adoption of blockchain and
distributed ledger technologies (DLT). The
industry continues to seek viable use
cases. One broad category of such use
cases is the end to end management of
digitally tokenized assets (See Figure 9),
in which the token either represents a
property interest that exists only on the
Blockchain (such as non-certificated
securities) or represents an asset existing
off the Blockchain.16
The security token market size should
grow to USD 2tn by 2030 with a 59%
CAGR (See Figure 10) for the 2019-2030
period, amid steady improvement of the
digital asset ecosystem. While mass
institutional adoption should occur post
202517.
We are, however, already seeing the
footprints of future institutional adoption. In
Figure 9: Asset Tokenization Lifecycle
2015, NASDAQ launched LINQ, which
deals with private equities based on blockchain technology. In 2018, Australia
securities exchange ASX announced that they will replace their clearing and
settlement system with a new blockchain-based system by 2021. JPX, the securities
exchange of Japan, has been trying to implement blockchain technology to the
clearing and settlement process of securities after constructing a consortium with
finance and IT companies in 2016.

16
17

https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/our-thinking/tokenization-opening-illiquid-assets-to-investors.jsp
https://www.finyear.com/attachment/1338789/

23

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure SEQ Figure \* ARABIC 10: Growth of ABSTs
(Source: Chain Partners)

Figure 10: Growth of ABSTs (Source: Chain Partners)

In 2018, SGX, securities exchange of Singapore, developed DvP, which is a
settlement solution for effective digital asset settlement across various blockchain
platforms. KRX, the securities exchange of Korea, declared in 2016 that they will utilize
blockchain technology at KSM18.
Snippets on Market Potential of an Improved Regulatory Compliance Protocol
During 2017, Thomson Reuters Regulatory Intelligence captured 56,321 regulatory
alerts from over 900 regulatory bodies averaging 216 updates a day (See Figure 11).

Figure SEQ Figure \* ARABIC 11: Total Yearly Alerts Raised (Source: Thomson Reuters)
18

Korea Startup Market

24

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
The scarcity and value of skilled compliance resources have been highlighted by
both the expected increase in the cost of senior compliance staff and the continued
use of outsourcing to respond to the continuous and increasing compliance
requirements.

Figure 11: Total Yearly Alerts Raised (Source: Thomson Reuters)

Figure SEQ Figure \* ARABIC 12: Regulatory Activities Tracked in 2017 (Source: Thomson Reuters)

Firms can seek to make the best use of in-house skills by optimizing the alignment,
cooperation and coordination between the risk and control functions to ensure there
is coverage of the key risks to the organization, and all associated reporting is
consistent.

One area where firms and their compliance officers may be seeking to bridge a skills
gap is with regard to evolving technology, notably in the shape of fintech developments
and RegTech solutions.

25

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure 12: Regulatory Activities Tracked in 2017 (Source: Thomson Reuters)

Whilst it is encouraging that compliance functions have recognized any skills gap,
firms need to keep the balance between in-house expertise and any outsourcing under
review.
Firms continue to invest in all aspects of their risk and compliance infrastructure, an
essential part of which is the skills of the compliance function (See Figure 12).19

19

https://legal.thomsonreuters.com/content/dam/ewp-m/documents/legal/en/pdf/reports/cost-of-compliance-special-report2018.pdf

26

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

The Prometheus Protocol – Compliance,
Governance, and Digitized Issuance
Solution Overview
Simply put, the Prometheus Protocol is a highly flexible architecture comprised of
interconnected layers that connect stakeholders, regulators, and technology to foster
omnichannel transparent communication and compliance in a structured and costeffective manner.
This makes the Prometheus Protocol an end-to-end regulatory compliance framework
that acts as the connecting link between decentralization and regulation on an equal
footing with equal weightage to both sides while addressing the concerns of both
sides.
The Prometheus Protocol serves as the communications bridge between the
stakeholders and all the actors within the Capital Markets’ value-chain. It incorporates
an open architecture for improved data governance and transparency between issuers
and subscribers. It enables end to end cross-border compliance to regulatory
authorities and a truly compliant-yet-customizable securities’ issuance and trading in
the secondary markets subject to cross-border regulation.
This makes the process of KYC/AML verification highly cost-effective and extremely
fast for financial institutions (which spent over $47 MM in KYC in 2016 alone Thomson Reuters20).
With the Prometheus Protocol, institutions will be able to perform
KYC/AML/KYB21/DD22 and such verifications faster and at a fraction of the existing
cost (ZKP23 can be used to perform such verifications instantly while preserving the
privacy of Financial Institutions’ clients). A consortium of validators (approved by the
regulators and other stakeholders such as the institutions themselves) perform
verification individually and only when they arrive at consensus will the verified data
be committed to the Data Registry. This also serves as the facilitator of smoother
cross-border regulatory harmonious action.

20

https://legal.thomsonreuters.com/content/dam/ewp-m/documents/legal/en/pdf/reports/cost-ofcompliance-special-report-2018.pdf
21
KYB = Know Your Bank
22
DD = Due Diligence
23
ZKP = Zero Knowledge Proof

27

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
Robust Data Governance completely compliant to GDPR is the central tenet that
underpins the Prometheus Protocol. The Prometheus Protocol is a comprehensive
framework that includes all stakeholders in the regulatory, compliance, issuance,
trading and post-trading ecosystem. From regulatory bodies and financial institutions
such as Tier-II, Tier III investment banks, private banks, wealth managers, and asset
managers to consulting agencies and tokenized issuance platforms that create
solutions for their clients, the Prometheus Protocol has a role-based access control
architecture to smoothen business flow both upstream and downstream.
In short, the Prometheus Protocol will become a connecting link between the
tokenization forces and the regulatory forces and enable users to harness the best
capabilities of both seamlessly.

Layers of the Prometheus Protocol
The Prometheus Protocol will be comprised of three key layers of communication to
facilitate multidirectional data flow in a traceable, accountable, and regulated manner
compliant with global, national, and local jurisdictions, as the case may be.
These three components are:
● Data Governance Layer - to ensure that all data collected, processed, and
disseminated is completely compliant with regulatory requirements such as
GDPR and MiFID II to ensure that both the privacy of the users and
transparency of transactions, comply with the various regulations across the
entirety of the Prometheus Protocol
● Cross-Border Regulatory Compliance Layer (CBRCL) - to ensure
harmonious integration with existing legal and regulatory structures worldwide
instead of removing them from the process. Compliance via Prometheus
Protocol’s cross-border regulatory compliance framework ensures complete
regulatory oversight, legal recourse by relevant regulatory bodies, and
upgradeability of smart contract logics by regulatory approval to continually
comply with evolving regulatory landscape.
● Security Issuance & Lifecycle Layer - to ensure compliant tokenization of
digital securities into digitized securities. The driving philosophy behind
Prometheus Protocol is to ensure compliance from step 1 instead of as an
after-thought or a slap-on.

28

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure 13: Layers of the Prometheus Protocol

29

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

The Data Governance Layer for Data Governance 3.0
Data Governance 3.0, as envisioned by the Prometheus Protocol, promises seamless
and expedited regulated Data Governance across borders to ensure compliance with
changing regulatory controls from one jurisdiction to the other.
It improves upon Data Governance 2.0 (which enabled seamless data governance
within the same jurisdiction) which itself was an improvement upon Data Governance
1.0 (seamless data governance within the offices of an entity).

Data Registry
The Prometheus Protocol’s Data Registry is the one-true trustless entity of all data
components pertaining to the investors and the issuers. The data registry has multiple
touchpoints with the Legal and Compliance Layer of the Prometheus Protocol whose
mandate is to ensure 100% compliance of the entire system to the regulatory and
legislative directives and laws.
Data stored on the Data Registry is:
1. KYC information of the investors and DD information of the legal entities (as
value) linked to the hash (key) of the provided data
2. KYC and eligibility statuses of the investors
3. Legal ownership statuses of digitized securities on the Prometheus Protocol
4. Transactional data pertaining to trades between counterparties
The hashes are created on successful verification of the user’s identity by the
compliance-verification entity and can be updated on the presentation of new data but
cannot be modified by any party unilaterally. The user’s data wallet syncs to the Data
Registry with Read-Only access to enable users to view their status but not modify it.

Data Fragmentation and Storage Architecture
Centralized storage is fraught with risks - censorship, single points of failure, and
impermanence of data being the biggest among them. Decentralization (data transfer
over peer to peer networks) has its problems too. Searching/Querying is painfully slow
and unreliable at best.
This is where Decentralized Hash Tables (DHTs) come in.

30

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
What is a DHT?
A DHT is the decentralized version of a hash table. A hash table stores key(identifier)
and value (content) pairs in an orderly manner. A DHT is the fundamental unit of IPFS
storage. Data committed to the IPFS for storage and retrieval is stored within
decentralized hash tables (DHTs)
Key (Header)

Value (Header)

001

“My Parameter”

002

“Is not”

003

“Ever Known”

The above table as a whole is a diagrammatic representation of a hash table. Now, in
a DHT, the different key-value pairs (depicted by different colours and known as
buckets) are stored in different locations. The same bucket can be stored at different
locations. These locations are called ‘Peers’.
Each Peer has an identifier PeerID and stores a list of all of the peers who have a copy
of the same bucket and also a list of the Peers who have copies of the other buckets
created from the same DHT.
Content Commitment and Retrieval
Similar to the BitTorrent protocol, each content piece is hashed (to create a content
address) before commitment to the IPFS and is chopped up into smaller pieces. Each
chopped content piece has a content ID (CID) that points to the content ID of the piece
preceding it and the piece succeeding it.
This is achieved by generating IPLD-Merkle-DAGs of the content piece. These smaller
content pieces are then committed to the same or different DHTs where the CID serves
as the key while the corresponding content piece is the value.
To retrieve a content piece, queries are raised using the content address instead of
the content location. This acts as a security measure. Only those who possess the
content address can request to retrieve it.
This content address query is relayed peer to peer to locate all of the CIDs and return
the linked content pieces along the same path. Once the content pieces are received,
the requesting party can verify their authenticity by hashing the content blocks and
matching it with their CIDs.
Fragmenting Data Associations on the Prometheus Protocol (Work in Progress)
On the Prometheus Protocol, the Data Registry is the frontend of an IPFS-powered
architecture. The Data Registry contains two major types of data -

31

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

•

Personally Identifiable User Data - committed to Data Registry post
consensus among KYC providers with respect to data validation

•

Transaction Data - committed to Data Registry after verification by the CBRCL
post-transaction execution

Once the data is created at the user level or at the institutional level, the transaction
data and personally identifiable user data are treated differently. Wholesale encryption
is typically an overkill (and very expensive) in many situations where some data is not
sensitive per se; what is sensitive is their association with other data (Ciriani et al.,
2010).
The Prometheus Protocol splits the data with minimal fragmentation and confidentiality
constraints. The confidentiality constraints are the privacy requirements of that data
and are used to segment the associations between the components of that data set.
This ensures that even if the data is stored on the same servers (low statistical
probability), the fragments of the data will essentially be distinct pieces with an
appearance of pointing to different sources and associations (if any). Only the data
owners will possess the knowledge of :
1. Data’s encryption keys
2. The storage location of the Data
Without having both the pieces of information, an actor cannot access the data or
derive any of its associations. The queries issued by users with a full view are then
translated into equivalent queries operating on the encrypted and fragmented data
stored on the server(s). The translation process is executed by a trusted component,
called a query mapping component, which is invoked every time there is a need to
access sensitive information (Ciriani et al., 2010).

Figure 13: Interactions among users and server storing the fragments

32

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
The Prometheus Protocol uses this technology to build an open all-inclusive IPFS24based public cloud system to enable sovereign ownership of user data to the users
alone. Thus, users can validate their identities to multiple entities without exposing
their KYC and such identity and compliance documents to every entity. It also ensures
wider compliance with data privacy laws such as GDPR by ensuring complete deletion
of user data - on demand, as opposed to accepting to leave digital breadcrumbs on
the Blockchain as acceptable trade-offs25.
The Prometheus Protocol uses data fragmentation and DHTs within the IPFS clusters
to provide:
●
●
●
●

Private and Secure data storage
Trustless validation
Right to be forgotten
Conservation of power consumption

Prometheus Protocol’s implementation includes a big IPFS pinset (as pinset manager)
for sharing, to serve several virtual IPFS peers with just one running IPFS peer
instance. This decreases users’ resource consumption while also serving as a
backend for IPFS clients. The protocol also includes a built-in fragmentation algorithm
that can be called via APIs. The data fragmentation algorithm sits in between the users’
data and the decentralized storage.
Financial consortiums can leverage the Prometheus Protocol to build their distinct
private clouds with their own set of actors and operators but under the overall
supervision of the regulatory and compliance layer.

Trustless Data Flow – Zero-Knowledge Proof for Validation
Access to the data registry is controlled via a Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
mechanism that allows read-only access to the users. It uses zero-knowledge proof
driven validation of users’ identities and eligibilities by the issuers and the trusted legal
and regulatory entities.
Zero-Knowledge Proof26 based validation ensures compliance with data privacy laws
while simultaneously being error-proof. The Prometheus Protocol will implement zk
STARK, an improvement of the zk SNARK for two main reasons:

24
25

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/InterPlanetary_File_System
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/either-isnt-look-blockchain-gdpr-compliance-andres-pihor/

26

Zero-knowledge proofs are methods of proving something while only divulging a
very small amount of information about that something.
33

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
1. zk STARK is quantum computing resistant making it future proof to potential
quantum encryption break
2. zk STARK does not require a trusted central setup to act as the intermediary
between the decision-making arms (Proof of Proximity)
Example of Validation via Zero-Knowledge Proof
If an Investor Alice, who was on-boarded by Bank A, wants to invest in a security
offering issued by Bank B, she needs to perform KYC again with Bank B by sharing
her personal information with Bank B to prove that she is eligible for and capable of
investing in Bank B’s security’s issuance.
With Zero-Knowledge Proof verification, Alice does not need to share her personal
information with Bank B. The only thing that Bank B needs to know is, whether Alice
meets the eligibility criteria (KYC) to investment and has sufficient funds to invest in
Bank B’s securities issuance.
Here’s how Zero-Knowledge Proof (ZKP) verification via the Prometheus Protocol
helps Alice maintain her data privacy, Bank A stayed GDPR compliant in cross-border
transactions; while providing Bank B with the necessary information to verify whether
to subscribe Alice to the security’s issuance or not. ZKP also enables banking
consortiums to offer open finance to all their investors, across jurisdictions and
regulations.
As an investor in Bank A, Alice’s information is already stored with Bank A. Banks A
and B are members of the same banking consortium. Bank A, after processing Alice’s
user data, uploads it to the data registry post-encryption. The data storage is in the
form of a key-value pair with the hash of the data serving as the key to the user data
serving as the value. The hash is committed to the DLT and a copy is stored on Alice’s
device (via the Prometheus Protocol’s User-facing app), as well as, on the
decentralized database in an encrypted manner.
Now, to prove her eligibility for and capability of investing in Bank B’s security’s
issuance, Alice sends her access key (from the Prometheus Protocol’s User-facing
app) to Bank B which can simply query the data registry with it. The data registry
returns the compliance and eligibility status of the provided hash, without divulging the
user data. This is the Zero Knowledge Proof Validation.
If Bank B requires Alice’s user data (to comply with regulatory requirements) or, if Alice
wishes to conduct business with it, Bank B only needs:
1. Alice’s express permission
2. Acceptance by Alice’s jurisdiction and Bank B’s jurisdiction as to the need of
Bank B to access Alice’s personal data

34

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
Once both conditions are met, an access key for Bank B is generated to access Alice’s
user data on the decentralized data registry.
If Alice wishes to stop doing business with Bank A, she can rescind access to her data
on the data registry to Bank A rendering the previously generated access key invalid.
Prometheus Protocol and Comprehensive Data Governance
The Prometheus Protocol incorporates a strategic and comprehensive approach to
achieve all-round robust data governance. Distinct from traditional data governance
models that are bottlenecked at the board level due to Data Governance Boards acting
slowly upon the advice of the Data Stewards, the Prometheus Protocol’s data
governance structure achieves:
1. Transparency in data processing and storage
2. Securing user privacy via zk STARK
3. Complete auditability with zero ability of data manipulation after recording
The Prometheus Protocol follows The Data Governance Institute recommended
formal, documented, repeatable procedures for:
1. Aligning Policies, Requirements, and Controls -- via a comprehensive
compliance layer that harmonises requirements of cross-border jurisdictions to
ensure legal oversight over transactions
2. Establishing Decision Rights -- by ensuring that the decisions taken by the
investors are dutifully carried to the issuers without possibility of tampering
along the way
3. Establishing Accountability -- achieved by multi-directional and omnichannel traceability of all data with the help of the decentralized data registry
4. Performing Stewardship -- Legal and Compliance Trusted Entities ensure that
data governance standards are always aligned to the regulatory and legislative
requirements of all jurisdictions involved in the flow of the issue
5. Managing Change -- Amendments in the laws and regulations are transcribed
into templates by the legal and compliance entities for automated and error
proof encoding into the upgradeable smart contract logic representing that law
as code instructions
6. Defining Data -- is easier with the DLT, decentralized data registry, the asset
registry encrypting all user data and only storing hashes to ensure privacy

35

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
7. Resolving Issues -- is made possible by the installation of a grievance
redressal entity to capture and collate all concerns raised by the stakeholders
and transfer them to the relevant actioning authority
8. Specifying Data Quality Requirements -- is again easier with the
incorporation of the DLT to store all hashed data on the decentralized data
registry and pass only the status via zero knowledge proof
9. Building Governance into Technology -- by upgradeable smart contract
logics to represent real world governance regulations as lines of code to
automate the flow and still be upgradeable by relevant entities only
10. Stakeholder Care -- by ensuring all accruals and actions of the stakeholders
are transparently, securely, and in a tamper-proof manner are transmitted
across channels in compliance to the jurisdictional requirements
11. Communications -- are managed via secure app interfaces of the
stakeholders and end to end encryption of messages to ensure safety from
tampered instructions getting transmitted

Figure 14: The Data Governance Framework (Source: Data Governance Institute)

36

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
Cross-Border Regulatory Compliance Layer – Transparent, Traceable, & Agnostic
The key issue is that data are not necessarily valid just because they are stored in
multiple places. In today’s compliance process, the data’s trustworthiness is
guaranteed by the legal system, the relevant authorities and the threat of legal
penalties.
Transparent
On the Prometheus Protocol, the process of compliance and its monitoring is achieved
via Consensus-Driven Compliance via the Cross Border Regulatory Compliance Layer
that is directly actioned upon by legal and compliance entities in the event of addition,
deletion, and/or amendment of the regulations governing the markets.
The Cross Border Regulatory Compliance Layer (CBRCL) of the Prometheus Protocol
ensures:
1. Compliance Adherence by the Stakeholder Entities
2. Compliance Monitoring by the Legal and Compliance Entities
The CBRCL has an uninterrupted multidirectional communication channel with the
data registry to ensure that any verified regulatory amendment is automatically and
instantly incorporated and updated on the data registry.
Similarly, any changes that are queued for commitment into the data registry are first
verified for compliance by the CBRCL.
In a nutshell, the Prometheus Protocol’s Cross Border Regulatory Compliance
Layer ensures regulator-driven compliance while also reducing the need for
firms to actively collect, verify and deliver data by connecting both sides via its
interface.
Any changes in compliance requirements are replicated directly at the layer-level by
templatized amendment of the code by the representatives of the regulatory bodies
themselves.
Traceable
The DLT bestows another benefit to the Prometheus Protocol in terms of end-to-end
data traceability which can be utilized by a vast body of stakeholders.
For example, issuers create rules or create any form of communication for the
investors and can send it across without fear of tampering or modification.

37

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
The investors also gain peace of mind on account of traceability since any modification
done to the issuer’s message will automatically raise a red flag before the investor can
action it.
Data traceability on the Prometheus Protocol is not limited to unidirectional issuer to
investor flow but can be easily implemented for a multi-stakeholder, omnichannel, and
multi-directional flow of traceable information.
Each Blockchain event emission on the Prometheus Protocol is also captured on the
database to enable faster querying in a localized environment without exposing the
user identity to any of the validators or operator entities (except in cases where the
identity needs to be divulged as part of the local regulatory requirements).
If the data is edited/modified by any of the recipients before transmission, it’ll generate
a new hash and not correspond to the hash on the data registry triggering a flag to
prevent the transaction from proceeding further.
This will also automatically raise a flag that notifies the recipients of the modified
message of the tampered status of the message and helps zero in on the source of
the tamper by mala-fide intent or human error.
Thus, Compliance Monitoring and Adherence on the Prometheus Protocol is an
overarching solution for enabling compliance to both:
1. Regulations and Laws created by jurisdictional legislations
2. Custom regulations for managing and auditing workflows within an Institution

Agnostic
The Data Registry is directly harmonized with the Cross-Border Regulatory
Compliance Layer to update the regulatory requirements when required. Once a
regulation is created/amended by the jurisdiction’s legislature, one of the several
‘Compliance and Legal Entities’ on the Prometheus Protocol creates its corresponding
rule (or rules) via standardized templates. Once this new rule is created, it must
achieve consensus via concurring votes from the other Compliance and Legal Entities.
If consensus is not achieved, the rule is discarded.
If consensus is achieved, the rule proceeds to the Rules Engine which converts rules
into smart contract code. The logic of the smart contract is then deployed on the
CBRCL to successfully implement the regulation/amendment within the Prometheus
Protocol and it’s live instantly.

38

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure 14: Cross Border Compliance Layer on the Prometheus Protocol

The CBRCL has multiple fail-safe channels of communication with the Data Registry
to ensure consonance at all times. For example, if an investor’s eligibility status
changes or if a transaction is deemed invalid, it can be actioned almost instantly. It will
also reflect on the Data Registry. This is a marked departure from the existing
traditional siloed systems where such activities can take anywhere between days to
months, depending on the jurisdiction in question.

39

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Security Issuance & Lifecycle Layer: Digitization of Assets
Background: Lifecycle of a Security
Securities can be defined as tradable financial assets that have monetary value. The
legal definition varies by jurisdiction but broadly speaking a security can be:
● Bearer - recognize the holder of the security certificate as the rightful owner.
(For example - bearer cheques)
● Non-certificated - also known as dematerialized, book-entry or electronic recognize the entity or individual whose name appears on the security register
maintained by the issuer or an intermediary. (For example, equity shares)
Bearer securities are risky in the sense that if you lose it, it’s literally “finders’ keepers”.
Additionally, it’s harder, if not impossible, to keep track of such a security.
On the other hand, the non-certificated/book-entry securities do not suffer from
untraceability, but the trade-off here is that such securities can be traded only within
the jurisdiction of the issue and with a trusted intermediary entrusted with the task of
updating the book entries in case of trades.
These intermediaries are known as Central Securities Depositories (CSDs) and
simply put they are directly involved in27
● the process of issuing securities, by holding issue accounts and handling the
initial registration of securities.
● the management of the book-entries (notary service) on behalf of the issuer
throughout the life of the security
● the -at least- daily reconciliation of the number of securities in the issue account
versus the outstanding number of securities
the access to participants in a given market to invest in securities issued in other
jurisdictions through their link to other CSDs.
The entire process above is part of the lifecycle of a security and is replete with multiple
trusted entities acting under the supervision of regulatory entities installed by local
jurisdictions to ensure compliance with jurisdictional regulations governing the trading
of assets.

27

there are some variations per jurisdiction

40

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
The Story of Non-Bankable Assets
Traditionally, assets have been, either liquid (like equities - traded on exchanges) or
illiquid/non-bankable (like a painting - buyers and sellers need to find each other, gain
each other’s trust, involve their lawyers, and only then, can transact).
Book-keeping for non-bankable assets is highly fractured and highly manual leaving it
susceptible to human errors, either intended or unintended.
Why Digitization of Assets?
The Prometheus Protocol’s approach via its Data Governance Layer, the CrossBorder Regulatory and Compliance Layer, and the Securities Issuance and Lifecycle
Management Layer work in tandem to ensure:
● Simplified and Regulated Trading of Assets across jurisdictions unlocking
markets
and
opportunities
for
both
issuers
and
subscribers
● Simplified Tokenization of Assets unlocking the potential of bankable and
non-bankable assets and entrepreneurs looking to crowdfund against equity,
utility, or a combination thereof
What is a Digitized Asset?
The Prometheus Protocol’s Securities’ Issuance and Lifecycle Management Layer
(SILMA) takes traditional securities, non-bankable assets, and other financial
innovative products, and converts them into Digitized Assets.
Here’s what happens in the background:
In the case of Traditional Securities (such as equities):
Here, a banking institution has taken care of the issuance, underwriting and trading on
behalf of the issuer while a depository - CSD takes care of the book-keeping with
respect to the transfer of ownership following transactions.
The Banking Institution can leverage the Prometheus Protocol to digitize their
securities which automates the compliance of trades to both jurisdiction of the Issue
and the jurisdiction of sale.
For CSDs, the book-keeping part becomes automated too while also providing
transparency, immutability, and automated compliance validation of both, the eligibility
of the counterparties and any additional requirements that the issuer wants to govern
trades
41

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

For jurisdictions that have digital CSDs, it continues to perform its depository mandate
while leveraging the Prometheus Protocol to maintain the registry and ensure
compliance. If the jurisdiction does not have digital CSDs, the issuers can install a
custodian of choice to perform the depository functions of the digital CSDs for the
digitized assets.
In both cases, the Prometheus Protocol allows for the automation of corporate actions,
from dividend payments, coupon payments, stock splits all the way to voting,
collapsing multiple layers between the end investor and the issuer.
For Non-Bankable Assets and New Issue;
The Prometheus Protocol enables digitization of not only traditional securities but also
of other assets that have colloquially been labelled as non-bankable assets because
they could never find a large enough number of buyers due to their non fungibility, lack
of liquidity and related costs.
First, the issuer figuratively divides the non-bankable asset into smaller and cheaper
digitized (tokenized) securities and then sells ownership, legal rights, or a combination
thereof to the eligible buyers.
Tokenization practically increases the number of potential buyers by making the newly
created security (backed by the non-bankable asset) fungible and affordable to a
larger number of individuals.
The Prometheus Protocol enables issuers to file term sheets, prospectuses, and cap
tables, etc. securely and without the need to print on paper, to the regulatory bodies
governing the new Issue.
On successful filing, the Asset Registry is populated with the new digitized asset and
the rules governing trades, eligibility of counterparties, and other issuer-specific rules
are encoded into smart contract logics that perform eligibility checks before allowing
trades to proceed.
Here too, the digital CSDs (if present), act as depositories and if not present, the
Prometheus Protocol possesses the capabilities to enable the installation of a suitable
and verified entity to act as the custodian to perform the activities of the digital CSDs
in its absence.

42

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Technical Architecture
Actors within the Prometheus Protocol
The Prometheus Protocol connects all stakeholders in the issuance and data
governance space comprehensively. The actors are:
1. Financial Institutions - are banks, private banks, asset management
companies, etc, that wish to conduct tokenized issuance or access unbankable
assets etc. in a completely regulated manner and foster faster and safer
communications within their branches and consortiums. Their key requirements
- speed, costs, security, and compliance to facilitate a smoother experience for
their customers
2. Data Processors - are entities that collect, collate, process, manage, and/or
store the data collected at various entry points of the financial ecosystems.
Their key requirements - clarity in terms of data governance and data privacy
laws so that they may adhere to them properly.
3. Legal and Compliance Entities - are entities tasked with the mandate to
oversee the compliance to financial and legal regulations laid down by the
government and regulatory bodies. Their key requirements - ensure adherence
to regulations and modify them as per the law of the land to prevent nefarious
activities such as terror financing and money laundering.
4. Book-keeping Entities - are essential infrastructure for the proper functioning
and security of financial markets and are entities such as depositories and
digital custodians that maintain authentic records of transactions between
parties and a history of legal ownership over the assets held by them in trust.
Their key requirements - Faster arrival of transactional data in a standardized
manner to expedite transfers of ownership of assets while ensuring the integrity
of the issue.
5. Technology Provisioning Entities - are service and product providers that
enable secure communication and transfer of information between the
stakeholders. Their key requirements - a standardized protocol/framework of
rules and requirements to help them flesh out their best practices.
6. Issuer-Investor Entities - are the issuers and subscribers of the digitized asset
and are the key actors around which the remaining actors are arranged. Their
key requirements - hassle-free transaction of business with faster processing
times and cheaper transaction costs.
43

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Functional Components - Definitions and Roles

Figure 15: Definitions and Roles of Prometheus Protocol Components

44

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Inter-Component Communications
Traceability of Transactions and User Data
The primary function of the Data Registry is to track all state changes of all
components integrated to the Prometheus Protocol. For DLT components this is
achieved by following the principle – All State Changes Shall Emit an Event28. The
Prometheus Protocol extracts these events into a user-friendly database where they
can be queried.

Figure 16: Traceability of Transactions and User Data Flow

For components on the same consortium but different Blockchain, an Oracle interface
is implemented to allow them to record their state changes via a simple contract that
will generate events with the information to be tracked.

28

Events are recorded in the Blockchain as a default feature of all Ethereum-compatible networks,

45

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Encrypted Storage of Users’ Legal Documents
The first step towards automated validation of user data across borders and
jurisdictions on the Prometheus Protocol is the secure upload and encrypted storage
of a user’s legal documents followed by their validation by Legal and Compliance
Entities.
All verified documents are recorded in the data registry – decentralized storage (for
public systems) and private clouds (for permissioned systems) for future reference.

Figure 17: Encrypted Storage of Users' Data Flow

During the upload to the Data Registry, key identifier attributes of the legal documents
are appended to its hash (as a trace identifying pattern) to enable downstream
traceability at all times such as:
●
●
●
●

Was the document uploaded?
When was the document uploaded?
Who is/was the document attributed to?
Who uploaded the document?

Due to the trace identifying pattern, multiple Legal and Compliance Entities can verify
the validity of the legal documents via zk STARK (with zero-knowledge proof),
simultaneously or in succession.

Document Verification Status Validation
To verify submitted documents, its hash is calculated, and the database is queried.
This database is a continuously synced replica of Blockchain events corresponding to
the hashes of the user data and transaction data on the Prometheus Protocol.
46

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

If the submitted documents’ hash gets a positive match, it is an indication that the
submitted document has already been validated and was found compliant to the
applicable regulatory frameworks.
If the submitted documents’ hash does not match, the Prometheus Protocol will
highlight on what basis it has been rejected, redirect them to the registration flow of
the institution or end the flow.

Figure 18: Document Verification Validation Flow

If the user data changes, for example, a change in the permanent residence of the
user, this needs to be updated in their legal documents and similarly updated in the
data registry on the Prometheus Protocol. For this, the user needs to send their new
legal documents for re-verification and validation.
These new legal documents update the user’s status with the new information while
preserving the traceability of the user data from the latest version to the oldest version
that was uploaded first on the Prometheus Protocol.

47

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

User Validation
All actors in the Prometheus Protocol are recorded in a hierarchical and dynamic
Blockchain structure that identifies them as authorized to perform specific actions on
specific functions.
An authorized operator can update the profile of any user and change its user profile.
These changes are only effective after being checked for compliance with the
pertaining regulatory processes.
The Permissions Hierarchy is dynamic. New users and securities categories can be
created by authorized operators. Existing or new rules will then apply to these new
categories based on existing regulatory processes.
As for any other state change in the Prometheus Protocol, all operations that result in
a change for the profile of any actor are recorded in the Data Registry and can be
queried.

Figure 19: User Validation Flow

48

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Regulatory and Compliance Services
Every security on the Prometheus protocol is associated with at least one regulatory
service and any state change generated with respect to that security is subject to the
consequence of the regulatory service’s rules.
The CBRCL sits upstream of the transactions, therefore all of the rules are applied
upstream. Meaning, the regulatory service pre-matches the profiles of all transacting
counterparties against its own internal rules as well as other conditions that need to
be met. This allows for checks to be done pre-trade and in layman’s term it means
users can only access transactions/actions that corresponds to their profile. The
CBRCL will automatically grey out and deny access to transactions/actions that do
not comply with the following:
1. Rules governing the eligibility of transacting counterparties
2. Rules created to govern transactions
Figure SEQ Figure \* ARABIC 20: Regulatory & Compliance

It is only after both these regulatory checks thatFlow
the transaction/action will be
available to the investor, and once processed, will be committed to the Data
Registry.

For example, if during an issuance, the regulatory service governing the ownership of
the issued security has an embedded rule that citizens of country X cannot own these
securities; all citizens of country X will be able to see (greyed out) but not access any
of these securities.
If the investor is not a resident of country X, the transaction will be actionable and once
it proceeds, will emit a Blockchain event (assuming that there are no other regulatory
rules). In a real-world scenario, there will be multiple regulatory rules that will need to
be activated to ensure compliance with the jurisdiction of the issuer and that of the
investor.
Regulatory Services can be third party modules implemented and maintained by
specialized parties. As regulations change, the regulatory services are updated with
immediate effect on subsequent transactions.

49

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Schematic Representation – Proof of Concept

Figure 20: Prometheus Protocol - PoC Architecture (Detailed)

50

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure 21: Prometheus Protocol - PoC Architecture (Overview)

51

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Contract Architecture - Proof of Concept

Figure 22: Issuance Process

Figure 23: Operator Permissions

52

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure 25: Issuance Registry

Figure 24: Shareholder Registry

53

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

On-Chain - Off-Chain Data Split

Figure 26: On-Chain - Off-Chain Data Split

54

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Use Cases
A Regulated Securities Offering
● Issuance Commencement
The issuer creates the proposal and undergoes regulatory compliance for approval by
the regulators from within the protocol itself. If the jurisdiction of the issuer has a digital
CSD, the security is issued in the digital CSD while a concurrent entry into both the
Shareholder Register and Asset Registry are created.
All transactions pertaining to this asset will be captured within the Asset Registry. Both,
the issuer and the compliance entities have read access to the Asset Registry.
If the jurisdiction of the issuer does not offer a digital CSD, the Prometheus Protocol
will enable a communication channel between:
●
●
●
●
●
●

the traditional CSD
the digital custodian
the Asset Registry,
the regulatory-compliance entities
the issuer, and;
the investors

to directly facilitate the updating of the status of the security’s ownership (in case of
jurisdictions that have traditional CSDs), a digital custodian is required.
● Whitelisting of Potential Subscribers and KYC
Central to secure data governance on the Prometheus Protocol is the Data Registry
that contains encrypted statuses of the KYC, the users’ legal documents, and
compliance details of the users registered on the Protocol.
The validation of these data is done via consensus among a set of KYC providers.
Institutions, while onboarding customers perform KYC. Directly committing this data to
the data registry is fraught with certain hazards, namely:
1. Data pollution and duplication that could arise due to minor spelling diversions
2. Entities might not be open to accepting KYC verification by other entities as it
might expose them to potential liabilities.

55

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
Thus, on the Prometheus Protocol, the commitment of user statuses such as
KYC/AML/KYB/DD etc to the Data Registry is subject to consensus among the KYC
and verification entities. The data processing agencies such as the KYC and
verification entities become such operators by fulfilling the conditions and
requirements set forth by regulators, participating entities (such as banks), and other
data processing agencies on the Prometheus Protocol.
However participating entities such as banks can pre-approve validators/providers but
also invalidate them based on their internal requirements, banks will provide a DNC
(Do Not Comply) list with validators/providers that do not match their internal
requirements. In this case, if approval is reached by the majority of the
validators/providers while all these validators/providers are on the DNC list of a certain
bank for example, this particular KYC for this particular bank will be considered not
valid.
Users can download their records maintained on the Data Registry and can even
request its complete deletion, should they wish to unenroll themselves. The obvious
benefit of the Prometheus Protocol to the user is that if he/she wishes to conduct
business with another bank, the new bank will not have to perform the entire KYC
process again. (Keeping in mind the DNC list for each bank)
The new bank, if a member of the Prometheus Protocol, can query the Data Registry
via the Role-Based Access Control mechanism and receive the result of that user’s
KYC status. This makes KYC verification – faster, cheaper, and less prone to data
mismanagement, either accidentally deliberately.
The onboarding of the investors, after KYC/AML/DD/KYB, is again verified against the
Cross-Border Regulatory Compliance Layer to ensure compliance with the issuer and
investor’s jurisdictional regulations.
The modification of the rules governing transactions on the CBRCL are conditional to
consensus of a multiplicity of Legal Trusted Entities. Once consensus is reached, the
modification/addition is committed to the “Rules Engine” which is then converted to
Smart Contract Code and the logic deployed to the CBRCL.
Simultaneously, on the issuer side, once the Legal Trusted Entities prepare the term
sheets, cap tables, prospectuses and other relevant information, the issuance is
triggered only after a concurrent green light from the CBRCL. This entire step is
digitized and does not require any filings to be done via paper submissions.
These double checks with the Cross-Border Regulatory Compliance Layer ensure that
issuers, investors, and other stakeholders are compliant right before, during, and after
the issuance process.

56

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
● Investing in Issued Securities
Once the proposal has been accepted and its records created in the Asset Registry
and Shareholder Register, the eligible investors will be able to view the available
investment opportunities on their devices and can proceed to the next steps via the
app itself.
If an investor not registered on the Prometheus Protocol wishes to subscribe to the
offered security, they can get their KYC status verified by the trusted entities within the
Prometheus Protocol.
Once verified, the new potential investor’s KYC data is added securely to the Data
Registry in an encrypted manner from where the issuer can verify their KYC status via
the Role-Based Access Control mechanism.

The Cross-Border Regulatory Compliance Layer is also the driving regulatory
compliance check over the digitized securities environment that includes the digitized
securities themselves, exchanges, CSDs, Digital CSDs, and Digital Custodians.
The digitized securities’ ownership records and their corporate actionable items are
stored on the Data Registry and are updated only after concurrence with the CrossBorder Regulatory Compliance Layer.
● Secondary Trading of Securities
The completion of a trade on an Alternate Trading Systems (ATSs) or Securities’
Trading Platforms will automatically change the ownership of the digitized security to
the new owner and automatically update the shareholder register in the digital CSD.
For traditional CSDs, we are partnering with various CSDs in order to seamlessly allow
them to update their registers.
● Corporate Actions
Corporate actions processing has long been plagued by inefficiencies and has been
written off as multiple complex processes that are unsystematic, abstruse and difficult
to automate. One of the reasons has been the multitude of intermediaries sitting
between an issuer and its investors. The Prometheus Protocol aims to create more
standardized and automated corporate actions. These include dividend payments,
coupon payments, withholding taxes, voting, stock split, stock buyback etc. To activate
a corporate action such as dividend distribution etc, the issuer sends the instruction
via the app which performs a concurrence check with the Cross-Border Regulatory
Compliance Layer and the digitized securities environment.
57

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Once everything checks out, digitized securities environment connects to the
Shareholder Register and the Data Registry to give effect to the corporate actions by
providing direct transfer of funds and/or instructions from the issuer to the investor and
vice versa.
The Prometheus Protocol ensures that despite trustless networks and the litany of
financial institutions in the fray, the corporate actions are straightforward encrypted
private conversations or instructions between the issuers and their subscribers.
● Legal Recourse Mechanism Layer (LRML)
As previously described, the CBRCL pre-checks any trade or transaction, meaning
that no trade or action can go through if it doesn't comply with its respective regulatory
requirements.
However, as an added safeguard and in case regulations or client status changes
unexpectedly, or even in case of a genuine erroneous mistake (with no losses to the
other party) trades that can be deemed invalid and can be easily reversed on the
Prometheus Protocol by regulator-driven action.
Once a member of the Regulatory Service deems a transaction invalid, the trusted
legal-regulatory entity or Regulatory Services’ representative on the Prometheus
Protocol or the Issuer can request the reversal of the transaction and status quo ante
is restored.
This prevents mistaken trades from causing loss to the investor while also ensuring
compliance with the AML norms as subscribed to and interpreted by the respective
regulators.

58

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure 27: A Regulated Issuance on the Prometheus Protocol

59

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Consortia for Private Banks and Wealth Managers
Prometheus Protocol enables large consortiums such as those comprised of Private
Banks and Wealth Managers, to create permissioned channels to foster lightning-fast
and tamper-proof data flow, trading and communication.
These private communication channels enable internally transparent, auditable, and
access-controlled transaction of business; as opposed to the opaque flows that plague
the traditional system.
Such permissioned networks have their own data registries and ‘trusted entities’
entrusted with the responsibility of enforcing the regulations of the issuer entity. The
data registries are the one true repository of all validated user data and issuance data)
within their consortia.
The issuing entity can also implement global rules for the consortium to expedite the
compliance with the issuing entity’s internal compliance protocols and/or to the
delegated authority. The trusted entities ensure compliance to the global rules of
business decided upon by the consortium members.
It is pertinent to note here that the customization of rules of business can only function
under the CBRCL overall regulatory framework that is backed up by an effective legal
system and supporting institutions29.
The internal rules’ implementation is subject to compliance with the CBRCL because
its compliance with regulation is not just external, but also internal. Issuers can
obviously create additional compliance requirements for their issues. But these are
restricted to just that issue and may have no bearing on other issues by other issuers.
The Prometheus Protocol allows for flexibility in terms of access, degree of access,
and the addition of additional entities such as Legal Recourse Mechanism Layer,
arbitration, and mediation, to name a few.

29

https://www.bis.org/publ/work811.pdf

60

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Figure 28: Flow in Consortia of Private Banks, Wealth Managers etc.

61

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Consolidated Reporting of Financial Exposure for Regulation
Data gaps are the inevitable price paid by financial institutions as they seek to keep
the costs of compliance within limits. But the cost of such gaps can be devastating, as
the snowball effect of the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 showed.
At the time, the worlds’ major financial institutions were not able to compute their
consolidated exposure to the many subsidiaries of Lehman, so that “what would have
been systemic risk morphed into systemic uncertainty” (Haldane et al (2015).
For example, Citibank, a multinational bank, faced a lot of criticism from a section of
the regulators and the public due to its troubles with consolidated reporting of its
financial exposure. Here, the problem was two-fold:
1. Regulators were unaware of Citibank’s financial exposure
2. Citibank had trouble consolidating this data due to its large sprawl
The Prometheus Protocol offers such financial institutions and institutional consortia
the ability to place consortium-wide or a tiered financial exposure rules to minimize
systemic risks. Non-adherence to these financial exposure limits is flagged and the
relevant entity and/or the supervisory entity is notified of the flag.
Compliance-checks, consolidations, and even reporting becomes easier due to largescale automation and easy verification, tabulation, and rectification by leveraging the
data registry. Consolidated Reporting on the Prometheus Protocol is also fully
compliant to local jurisdictions’ regulations such as MiFID II, Basel 3, etc
In a multinational setting, such as in the example of Citibank, the Prometheus
Protocol’s CBRCL (cross-border regulatory and compliance layer) ensures that all
three, namely:
1. The transacting counterparties
2. The Asset being transferred
3. The transaction itself
are compliant at all points of time with successful-transaction-triggered Blockchain
event serving as the trusted reference over trustless networks. This reporting of an
institution’s aggregated financial exposures to the supervisor does not require entities
to disclose its underlying individual transactions (data privacy compliance).

62

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

A Truly Compliant Open Finance Solution
Open Finance is the next logical step to Open Banking30 which enables the use of
open APIs for third-party developers to develop apps and services leveraging a
financial institution. Open Finance envisages leveraging multiple financial institutions
in multiple jurisdictions. The Prometheus Protocol is a pioneer in Open Finance.
The investor data is stored post-encryption on the decentralized data registry and its
hash (also acting as the key of the key-value pair) is stored not only in the data registry
but also on the user’s devices. If the investor wishes to grant access to their
information to any third-party entity, they simply need to share their access key with
the entity.The entity will then leverage the Prometheus Protocol’s API to query for the
user data which will be provided post a successful check by the Role-Based Access
Control Mechanism (RBAC) of the Prometheus Protocol. The entity shall prove its
compliance, as well as, its requirement of the user data, to gain access to the user
data.
This secondary check by the Prometheus Protocol’s RBAC ensures that the user is
protected by phishing, hacking, and honey potting attacks from nefarious actors. Even
if the nefarious actors gain unauthorized access to the investor’s hash, they’ll be
prevented from using it to unlock the user’s data by the RBAC. Since such actors do
not possess qualifying credentials (for e.g. private key), they’ll be denied access to the
investor’s data.
Access to investor data via APIs across jurisdictions will involve a tertiary but
automated verification of the requesting entity’s credentials by the Cross-Border
Compliance Layer of the Prometheus Protocol for compliance to the following two
jurisdictions:
1. Jurisdiction of the Investor
2. Jurisdiction of the Requesting Entity
Thus, the strict adherence to data governance and compliance regulations coupled
with technological advancement enables the Prometheus Protocol to provide Open
Finance in its undiluted form - across jurisdictions and entities.
The Prometheus Protocol’s APIs will be amongst the pioneers in the open finance
space and will enable wider access to partnered institutions to develop their own apps.
These apps can enable not just banking and financial institutions, but also other
service provisioning companies to develop innovative solutions such as a single app
to manage all bank accounts on partnered institutions.
30

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Payment_Services_Directive

63

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Embedded Data Traceability and Tokenized Content
Management
In an age where fake news is at the forefront of our social media and more and more
so traditional media, data traceability on the Prometheus Protocol can enable a
simplified implementation mechanism for data creators such as writing agencies,
individual bloggers, and news processing companies to tokenize their content and
achieve end-to-end visibility into data quality.
This is achieved on the Prometheus Protocol by hashing the content piece and
appending the creator’s public key to it for verification. The hash of this amalgamation
is stored on the decentralized data registry and also on the data wallets of the content
creators.
The content creators can go a step further and tokenize the entire content piece
directly from their devices. Therefore, every time this content piece is referenced,
downloaded, and/or processed for elucidation, tokens are generated and appended to
these secondary works, acting as the tenets of data traceability.
In the event of a data piece being modified or a third party is interested in looking up
the data source, the indexed token-driven architecture allows complete visibility from
any given point to the point of provenance i.e. the content creator. Its immutable
traceability constitutes proof of the data’s authenticity.
If the data is tampered with, let’s say, by a blogger who misunderstood some of the
content within a tokenized content piece on the Prometheus Protocol and changes a
figure, effectively rewriting it. In this case, the token generated at this blogger’s data
wallet will represent a fork away from the line of data traceability and act as the proof
of divergence from the original piece.
Thus, this modified data is automatically and transparently flagged as a
deviation/modification of the original piece. This flag is also appended to the future
transmissions of this modified piece so that the recipients downwards are notified of
its modified status without having to depend on third-party centralized fact-checking
organizations but be notified automatically by the Prometheus Protocol itself.
Writing Agencies such as satire magazines that routinely process news for their
purposes can be granted special flags that notify the recipients downstream of its
modified status, for satire, so that readers understand that it is not fake news per se.

64

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

The Team Behind the Prometheus Protocol
Executive and Management Team
Rachid is a serial entrepreneur with an obsession for modelling, analytics
development, quantitative analysis and data science. For the last decade, he has
been developing and implementing models and methodologies to help organizations
with forecasting and risk management. In 2017, he completed the building and
deployment of a highly scalable deep learning models in artificial intelligence applied
to computer vision. His impressive work received accolades from VINCI which
commissioned him to help orchestrating the ambitious “smart highways and smart
cities” project, combining AI and Blockchain. He holds an engineering degree in
Computer Science and Signal Processing, and a Masters degree in Probability
Theory, Stochastic Process and Quantitative Finance.
Rachid Ajaja
(Co-Founder)

I. N. Amber Ghaddar,
PhD
(Co-Founder)

Matthijs De Vries
(Co-Founder)

Before co-founding AllianceBlock, Amber was a fixed-income trader at JP Morgan in
London. She started her career in Global Investment Research at Goldman Sachs
and moved from there to the Cross Asset Solution team at JP Morgan in 2012, where
she worked on structured and exotic products across Equities, FX, Rates, Credit and
Commodities. During this time she build the JP Morgan UK MultiAsset franchise.
Later, she spearheaded the Macro Systematic Strategies effort at JP Morgan,
focusing on dynamic risk premia trading strategies. She is one of the masterminds
behind Participative Capitalism and has been invited to various events and
universities to give talks on the subject. She graduated from HEC in 2011 with a
Masters in International Risk Management. Previously, she spent most of her early
career in Neurophysiology and Nanotechnologies. She obtained her B.Sc in Science
& Technology from McGill University in Canada, graduated with two masters
(Neurosciences and Microelectronics & Nanotechnologies) from Universite AixMarseille in France and read for a PhD in Molecular Medicine at Vita Salute in Italy.
Matthijs has managed the product development of one of the largest Dutch
companies: PostNL. There, he was responsible for several software development
departments and related departments in order to lead an entire software
development chain before switching companies to lead the development of several
unique AI products amongst which a ground-breaking chatbot. He has an extensive
and varied background as a software developer himself. He has developed a fullblown workflow management suite and analytical algorithm in the field of veterinary
diagnostics, among various other projects, before growing into a managerial role. He
knows what is important for a developer to be able to thrive and deliver high end
products. Besides hands-on software development experience and management,
Matthijs has founded and managed three other companies, thereby gaining plenty of
entrepreneurial experience in the process.

65

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Strategic Advisors

Chris Laurent
(Vertical Lead
FinTech/Kickstart)

Swiss Zurich-based passionate participant in the global Fintech (incl.
Blockchain) community as Vertical Lead @ Kickstart, Europe’s leading
innovation program and Non-executive board member @ Achiko ltd, a Swiss
listed Fintech, South East Asia 20 years of experience at board level in
various corporates and startups also as entrepreneur, with 10 years dedicated
to the financial industry, including one direct listing at the Swiss Stock
Exchange in Nov. 2019. MBA x2 (incl. IMD program), MSc x2, most recently
Google “Square” Academy graduate 2015. Beside general management,
competencies include marketing, business development and fundraising
(>10m raised)

After a banking education quickly supplemented by an IT training, Christian
Marchand has evolved for over 30 years with "one leg" in the bank, and the
other one in IT Banking Industry at various positions. In 2009, he became an
independent consultant, first in the field of "Sustainable ICT", but also in the
field of new financial technologies (FinTech), which combine his initial
orientations. Advice, fundraising, coaching, organization of events (among
others Geneva WealthTech Forum & GlobalTech Summit Lausanne, editorial
contributions are now his daily. He is also certified for GDPR since 2018.
Christian Marchand
(Head of (Wealth-), (Fin-),
(Global-) Tech Enthusiast &
Events co-Organizer)

Christen Oesterbye
(Executive Director SEBA
AG)

Serial entrepreneur of Danish origin with strong international experience
focused on scaling and building successful companies and teams in the
Technology and Fintech space. Initial career with IBM Software Group in
Corporate Finance and later leading the EMEA region for Safenet Inc. a
leading global IT security vendor listed on NASDAQ prior to being acquired
by Vector Capital, a San Francisco based Private Equity company. Strong
cross functional general management skills operating at Board and Executive
level. Known for being very "hands-on" at the critical growth phase to drive
companies to success. Most recently involved with SEBA Bank AG and IOV42
Ltd in executive roles. Currently supporting a number of startups in
Switzerland and abroad. Bachelor and Master degrees in Economics and
Business Administration from Denmark, UK and Norway.

66

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

International career with 20 years of experience in investment management,
investment banking and consulting with a focus on financial institutions.
Investment management track record includes private equity investments
across the financial institutions sector on behalf of a Middle Eastern sovereign
wealth fund as well as a Hong Kong listed Chinese investment company.
Hands-on entrepreneurial experience in setting up three start-up companies
(two of them fintech companies) and personal early-stage investments in two
other fintech companies. Bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and
MBA from IESE Business School
Alexander Seel
(Director Legend Holdings)

Luke Lombe is the Co-Founder of MYNTD, a capital access firm specialising
in digital securities, and Founder of Echelon One, a boutique tech-focused
start-up and scale-up consultancy. with a range of clients including blockchain
projects, Grammy-winning production studios, government, mining, VR, real
estate, and tech firms. Luke is a 2 x TEDx speaker, panellist, keynote speaker,
MBA lecturer, and has been featured in a variety of media including Huffington
Post, Forbes, Sky News TV, The Daily Telegraph, Wall Street Journal,
Network HR Magazine, Hackernoon, and Shanghai Daily. Luke holds an
MBA, B.Com, and Dip. Fin.
Luke Lombe
(Co-Founder of MYNTD)
David loves to help people and businesses driven by purpose and a deep
understanding and love of what they do. He is a member of the leadership
team of Holo & Holochain where he focusses on business, community and
ecosystem growth, and service delivery. He is also a co-founder of
Blockleaders, a media platform telling human stories that power the world of
blockchain. Prior to that, David was COO of Mind Gym, a behavioural change
consultancy. During his tenure, Mind Gym grew revenue 3x in 4 years, and
now has a market cap of ~£150m. David is driven to provide clarity (insight,
simplification, story, vision/ambition, contribution, diagnosis), consideration
(teaching, theory, provocation, recalibration, consultation), creation
(prototypes, propositions, products/services) and containers (frameworks,
mental models, systems) for those he works with.
David Atkinson
(Current roles: Exec team at
Holochain, Co-Founder
Blockleaders, Advisor)

David has a longstanding advisory experience including his time as a Strategy
Consultant at Marakon, where he worked with companies like Heineken,
DONG energy and the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, as an ICO
Advisor where he is known for his understanding of economic, strategic,
ecosystem and currency landscapes, as Investor Director at Up Learn and as
a relied upon Business Mentor and Advisor to >50 businesses since 2017.
David is a co-founder of Blockleaders, Fetchhcup and Men In Therapy.

67

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock
Pranav has over a decade & a half year leadership experience covering
Business Development, Sales & Distribution, Asset Management, Private
Equity & Insurance. He is passionate about Entrepreneurship, Technology
and Renewable Energy. He has always taken challenging roles covering wide
gamut of area like Cutting tool & Wind Power Sales as an Engineer (India),
Private Equity in Renewable energy Sector (Philippines), Strategic initiatives
in Financial Services (in India, Dubai, Singapore and Korea). He has worked
with Sandvik Asia, Suzlon Energy, Alternergy Pte & Aditya Birla Group. In
Aditya Birla Group he was part of Young Talent & leadership program and
has been with Aditya Birla Chemicals (Thailand), Corporate Strategy
(Mumbai) & Aditya Birla Financial Services Group.
Pranav Sharma
(Current roles: Co-founder &
Managing Partner Woodstock Fund)

Pranav has a deep understanding of SME context on business & financial
services side. On one hand, he has helped SMEs raise funds & take
Insurance cover. On the other hand, he has built pioneering institutional
infrastructure like SME Counselling, SME University & tied up with over 15+
SME associations, over 3000+ SMEs outreached, over 800+ SME
Distributors trained & 30+ SME Workshops

68

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Partners

69

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Table of Figures
Figure 1: Components of Compliance (Source: E&Y) ................................................. 6
Figure 2: Concerns in Compliance (Source: CB Insights) ........................................... 7
Figure 3: Traditional Investment Process (Source: MuleSoft) ..................................... 9
Figure 4: Regulation, Trust, and Sentiment (Source E&Y) ....................................... 10
Figure 5: A Collaborative Compliant Ecosystem (Source E&Y) ................................ 14
Figure 6: Compliance Maturity Assessment (Source: E&Y) ...................................... 18
Figure 7: Market Growth (2019-2024) (Source: Market Intelligence) ........................ 21
Figure 8: Transparency in Data Flow (Source: OECD) ............................................. 22
Figure 9: Asset Tokenization Lifecycle ...................................................................... 23
Figure 10: Growth of ABSTs (Source: Chain Partners) ............................................. 24
Figure 11: Total Yearly Alerts Raised (Source: Thomson Reuters) .......................... 25
Figure 12: Regulatory Activities Tracked in 2017 (Source: Thomson Reuters)......... 26
Figure 13: Interactions among users and server storing the fragments .................... 32
Figure 14: Cross Border Compliance Layer on the Prometheus Protocol................. 39
Figure 15: Definitions and Roles of Prometheus Protocol Components ................... 44
Figure 16: Traceability of Transactions and User Data Flow ..................................... 45
Figure 17: Encrypted Storage of Users' Data Flow ................................................... 46
Figure 18: Document Verification Validation Flow ..................................................... 47
Figure 19: User Validation Flow ................................................................................ 48
Figure 20: Prometheus Protocol - PoC Architecture (Detailed) ................................. 50
Figure 21: Prometheus Protocol - PoC Architecture (Overview) ............................... 51
Figure 22: Issuance Process ..................................................................................... 52
Figure 23: Operator Permissions ............................................................................... 52
Figure 24: Shareholder Registry ................................................................................ 53
Figure 25: Issuance Registry ..................................................................................... 53
Figure 26: On-Chain - Off-Chain Data Split ............................................................... 54
Figure 27: A Regulated Issuance on the Prometheus Protocol................................. 59
Figure 28: Flow in Consortia of Private Banks, Wealth Managers etc. ..................... 61

70

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

References
Americas FS Regulatory Center of Excellence, K. (2017). Ten key regulatory
challenges Facing the financial services industry in 2017.
Bellamy, P. and Andrade, D. (2019). Data governance: securing the future of
financial services. [online] Ey.com. Available at:
https://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-securing-the-financialfuture-with-data-governance/%24File/EY-securing-the-financial-future-withdata-governance.pdf
Buterin, V. (2017). STARKs, Part I: Proofs with Polynomials. Retrieved 7
November 2019, from https://vitalik.ca/general/2017/11/09/starks_part_1.html
DGI Data Governance Framework Components - The Data Governance Institute.
Retrieved 7 November 2019, from
http://www.datagovernance.com/fwk_dgi_data_governance_framework_comp
onents/
Ciriani, V., Vimercati, S., Foresti, S., Jajodia, S., Paraboschi, S., & Samarati, P.
(2010). Combining fragmentation and encryption to protect privacy in data
storage. ACM Transactions On Information And System Security, 13(3), 1-33.
doi: 10.1145/1805974.1805978
Domingo, C., Finkelstein, S., & Sarna, J. (2018). DS Protocol - Securitize’s Digital
Ownership Architecture for Complete Lifecycle Management of Digital
Securities. Retrieved 7 November 2019, from
https://securitize.sfo2.digitaloceanspaces.com/whitepapers/DSProtocolv1.0.pdf
English, S., & Hammond, S. (2018). COST OF COMPLIANCE 2018. Retrieved 7
November 2019, from https://legal.thomsonreuters.com/content/dam/ewpm/documents/legal/en/pdf/reports/cost-of-compliance-special-report-2018.pdf
Enterprise Information Management: Best Practices in Data Management.
Retrieved 7 November 2019, from
http://egovstandards.gov.in/sites/default/files/oea-best-practices-data-gov400760.pdf
Gowravaram, N. (n.d.). Zero Knowledge Proofs and Applications to Financial
Regulation. [online] Nrs.harvard.edu. Available at: http://nrs.harvard.edu/urn3:HUL.InstRepos:38811528
Inc, M. (n.d.). Open Banking platform strategy: Modernize customer engagement
with APIs. [online] MuleSoft. Available at:
https://www.mulesoft.com/lp/whitepaper/api/open-banking-platform

71

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Koverko, T., & Housser, C. (n.d.). POLYMATH THE SECURITIES TOKEN
PLATFORM. Retrieved 7 November 2019, from
https://daks2k3a4ib2z.cloudfront.net/5a46fad33472ef00014b540a/5a46fad334
72ef00014b54d0_Polymath%20Whitepaper.pdf
Labs, M. (n.d.). matter-labs/awesome-zero-knowledge-proofs. [online] GitHub.
Available at: https://github.com/matter-labs/awesome-zero-knowledgeproofs#comparison-of-the-most-popular-zkp-systems
Lukas, J. (n.d.). The Leading Security Token Issuance Platforms: A Summary
Comparison. [online] Medium. Available at:
https://medium.com/@jaronlukas/the-leading-security-token-issuanceplatforms-a-summary-comparison-ac8d42290f98
McLellan, L. (n.d.). Fintech finally at the capital markets gates. Retrieved 7
November 2019, from
https://www.globalcapital.com/article/b1hlqyd81qwvgm/fintech-finally-at-thecapital-markets-gates
News, O. (n.d.). [online] Pinsentmasons.com. Available at:
https://www.pinsentmasons.com/out-law/news/uk-moving-from-openbanking-to-open-finance [Accessed 6 Nov. 2019].
News, O. (n.d.). [online] Pinsentmasons.com. Available at:
https://www.pinsentmasons.com/out-law/news/payments-rules-present-abarrier-to-open-finance
Pandit, V., & Dayama, P. (n.d.). Privacy in blockchain collaboration with zero
knowledge proofs - Blockchain Pulse: IBM Blockchain Blog. Retrieved 7
November 2019, from
https://www.ibm.com/blogs/blockchain/2019/01/privacy-in-blockchaincollaboration-with-zero-knowledge-proofs/
Pribanic, E. (2018). Top Regulatory Compliance in Financial Services by
techFunnel. [online] Techfunnel. Available at:
https://www.techfunnel.com/fintech/top-regulatory-compliance-in-financialservices/
Rijvenam, M. (n.d.). How Zero Knowledge Proof Will Enable Trustless
Transactions and Increase our Privacy. Retrieved 7 November 2019, from
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-trustless-society-improve-our-privacymark-van-rijmenam
Remeika, B., Amano, A., & Sacks, D. (2018). The Regulated Token™ (RToken™) Standard. Retrieved 7 November 2019, from
https://harbor.com/rtokenwhitepaper.pdf

72

The Prometheus Protocol – By AllianceBlock

Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y. and Riabzev, M. (n.d.). Scalable, transparent,
and post-quantum secure computational integrity. [online] Eprint.iacr.org.
Available at: https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/046.pdf
Stringfellow, A. (2018). NGDATA | 3 Data Governance Best Practices for Banks
& Financial Services Companies. [online] NGDATA. Available at:
https://www.ngdata.com/data-governance-best-practices-for-banks-financialservices-companies/
Thomas, H., Kimber, A. and Brown, W. (n.d.). How regulation is unlocking the
potential of open banking in the UK. [online] Ey.com. Available at:
https://www.ey.com/en_gl/banking-capital-markets/how-regulation-isunlocking-the-potential-of-open-banking-in-the-uk
Timpert, A., Wyss, R., Ouschan, D. and Azzouz, Z. (2017). Compliance 2025.
[online] Abti.ch. Available at: https://www.abti.ch/pdf/ch-en-fs-compliance2025-dna-evolution.pdf
T-REX (Token for Regulated EXchanges) The token standard allowing ownership
transfers of tokenized securities. Retrieved 7 November 2019, from
https://tokeny.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/t-rex-whitepaper.pdf
Traulsen, S. and Tröbs, M. (2019). Implementing Data Governance within a
Financial Institution. [online] User.tu-berlin.de. Available at:
https://www.user.tu-berlin.de/komm/CD/paper/050141.pdf
Zuenko, A. Zero-Knowledge Explained: Part 1. Use Cases. Retrieved 7 November
2019, from https://stratumn.com/thinking/zero-knowledge-explained/

73

