MAKE CRYPTO
MAINSTREAM
WHITEPAPER

CHAT, TRADE AND
JOIN THE COMMUNITY!

Table of Contents
Introduction ....................................................................................................................................................................

4

Problem .........................................................................................................................................................................

5

Solution ...........................................................................................................................................................................

8

The ALLY Ecosystem .....................................................................................................................................................

10

ALLY Ecosystem Roadmap .............................................................................................................................................

19

ALLY Token (ALY) ...........................................................................................................................................................

20

Team ...............................................................................................................................................................................

22

Conclusion ......................................................................................................................................................................

23

References .....................................................................................................................................................................

24

Introduction
While the world has seen some incredible innovations built on the back of centralized community systems,
including the likes of Facebook, Telegram, Uber, and Amazon, the world has become acutely aware of the
drawbacks of centralized computing. Hacks, data breaches, and state-sponsored attacks have put the public’s
faith in the traditional ways of connecting online in jeopardy. It has become all too apparent that the systems
of the past need changing perhaps not only for matters of cyber security, but also for users’ privacy and data
protection. Many of these centralized systems exploit user data and invade individual privacy because their
business models are dependent on just that. It’s clear the world is in dire need of a new system, one that is
designed with different incentives to ensure users and community managers are protected at its core.
With the Big Tech companies, many middlemen and intermediaries collect numerous pockets of user data while
failing to deliver any value to the end customer. Due to the rise of blockchain and new decentralized global
paradigm, it is essential for ALLY to innovate using this technology and demonstrate how decentralized
networks have the power to be a catalyst for more secure communication to build communities on a more global
scale. Many view blockchain and cryptocurrencies as an alternative to our current broken system, one that can
ensure security, privacy, and freedom of communication for all.

4

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

Problems With Current Adoption
Of Blockchain & Crypto
LACK OF ACCESSIBILITY AND WIDESPREAD MISUNDERSTANDING
Blockchain technology, like the earliest versions of the Internet, has so far failed to be adopted by a mainstream
audience due to its perceived complexity and high barriers to entry. Many of the blockchain applications
in existence today remain unappealing to most people because they’re difficult to use and do not offer an
experience that is able to rival their centralized counterparts. Like blockchain, the benefit and value proposition
of the Internet wasn’t clear in its infancy. Many questioned the long-term sustainability of it and failed to see the
many ways in which it would evolve and revolutionize our world.
The Internet in its early days was widely misunderstood, complex to use, and failed to scale adequately.
Generally speaking, new technologies seem daunting and unappealing and many opt to stick with the status
quo. Before the benefits of email became clear, most would have been content, if not pleased, with postal mail.
The misunderstanding and confusion that accompanies the onset of new technologies mostly stems from a lack
of education about the added value of these technologies. Moreover, early iterations of the Internet were not
user-friendly and were limited to many basic functions such as webpages and email. It took time for the web
technology to develop and for the infrastructure to be built to facilitate the creation of higher-order functions and
processes.
As cryptocurrencies emerge from their infancy, they are often compared to how the Internet was in its dawn.
It is commonly misunderstood, cumbersome to use, and has struggled thus far to scale. Most discount it as
unnecessary and fail to see its value proposition and the potential it has to reshape and grow many industries.
Many are content with the status quo and view the switching costs of moving to decentralized systems as
insurmountable. Lastly, people frequently mistake the current state of the technology with the end state.
The current state of the crypto world is also extremely fragmented, siloed, and considerably unconnected. There
is no interconnected and unified platform in which crypto enthusiasts, traders, and spectators can trade various
cryptocurrencies, share insights, discuss trading strategies, and digest the latest industry news in secure
community settings. Instead, those interested in chatting about crypto and other matters with other like-minded
people must resort to using a variety of different trading and centralized communication platforms that do not
and cannot guarantee their privacy.

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

5

Telegram has become one of the top go-to messaging platforms for blockchain projects to cultivate and grow
their community, while in China, WeChat dominates the communication industry. Similarly, CoinMarketCap is
used to check coin and token prices on various cryptocurrencies and understand the latest market trends.
Lastly, an excess of exchanges ranging from Binance to Coinbase are used to buy, sell, and trade. Therefore,
those utilizing each platform for different purposes experience a fragmented and disconnected crypto
community experience.
Crypto and blockchain have yet to be adopted by a mainstream audience and achieve real, practical use-cases.
This is mainly due to the unfriendly user interfaces and experiences that currently exist with most decentralized
applications, and due to the high number of scams and frauds in the space, most members of the general public
are reluctant to get involved. Coupled with the perceived complexity of a new and commonly misunderstood
technology and the lack of education on the benefits of the technology, mass adoption has stalled.

THE PITFALLS OF CENTRALIZED COMMUNICATION PLATFORMS
In living up to its promises of transparency, inclusion, and access, many blockchain projects have chosen to
host official forums and discussions on platforms where they can communicate directly with their community
base. The majority of blockchain and crypto projects’ communication occurs on Telegram, Discord,
WhatsApp, WeChat, and other centralized messaging applications. However, the ethos of blockchain lies in its
decentralized mission, one complete with security, privacy, and freedom while online. Not only is it
antithetical for blockchain projects to run their communities on centralized platforms, but they also run the risk
of exploitation and improper surveillance that has become all too common as shown in the recent Facebook,
Telegram and WeChat data controversies.
Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica data breach exposed the personal information of 87 million Americans and
WhatsApp’s security vulnerability allowed users to be spied on (Falconer, 2019). These data privacy scandals
are opening up people’s eyes to the pitfalls of centralized platforms. When any online service is monetarily
free, users become the de facto product and their data is sold to advertisers via targeted ads. This “surveillance
capitalism” has an insatiable need for data as their business models rest on this very idea. Furthermore, due
to its centralized structure, Telegram was effectively banned in nations like Russia in April 2018 and Iran in
May 2018 after refusing to comply with the requests for data and information from those countries’ respective
authorities (Collier, 2018). Telegram has been admired by many online privacy advocates for steadfastly
refusing to comply with improper government requests for user information. However, Telegram itself is still a
centralized platform and therefore still subject to malicious hacking attacks and security vulnerabilities due to a
single point of failure that is intrinsic in centralized systems.

6

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

Those using WeChat in China are similarly unable to freely communicate about blockchain and crypto due to
harsh government restrictions on the discussion of crypto news. Thus, despite being one of the most cryptocrazed countries, the Chinese people are unable to discuss topics such as ICO’s and various cryptocurrencies
due to government bans (Young, 2018). Furthermore, the Chinese authorities went so far as to prohibit
merchants using WeChat from being involved in any way with cryptocurrency activity or trading. Those found in
violation could have their WeChat accounts closed and possibly even subject to further discipline. This obvious
friction towards people’s ability to freely discuss cryptocurrency and blockchain technology highlights yet
another flaw with centralized systems—the ability for oppressive governments to censor content and stifle free
speech.
The world has much to gain from the use of a single, global communication platform. Not only would it go a long
way in eliminating the data ownership issues with the larger conglomerates but would also ensure that users’
information wasn’t being used to manipulate them, or worse. The world deserves a decentralized community
center where they can go to learn more about crypto, chat with like-minded individuals and protect their data.

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

7

Solution For Widespread Adoption
THE TRANSFORMATIONAL POTENTIAL OF BLOCKCHAIN
TECHNOLOGY
Similar to how the Internet in 1995 wasn’t capable of what it is today, blockchain technology will naturally
continue to be innovated and will eventually have far superior functionalities than it currently does. In 1998, Nick
Szabo, cryptographer and smart contract pioneer stated that, “doing business on the Internet requires a leap of
faith.”
Trust has always been the fundamental currency of both communication and commerce.
Every second new online transactions occur between strangers around the world, usually through a third-party
enabling the communication transaction, and trust needs to be manufactured between the user and host to
complete the operation. Whether a message is sent, or a payment is made, the sender has no choice but to
trust that the intermediary will deliver the transaction to the intended recipient safely.
With the distributed blockchain ledger, users can securely and directly connect and perform transactions with
each other, without having to rely on an intermediary or worry about protecting their privacy. Blockchain and
decentralized networks offer a way to confidently operate in a trust-less environment using its distributed ledger
to create transparency and consensus-driven, tamper-proof logs of transactions. Every transactional ‘block’
is verified by the entire network and then immutably linked to the ‘chain’ to provide unparalleled security and
accountability.
The clear solution to this problem is leveraging blockchain’s distributed ledger, which connects users directly,
eliminating the need to place trust in an intermediary or an unknown party, as well as lowering the barriers
to entry for crypto newcomers. Through ongoing education to further demystify the negative hype around the
new tokenized asset era will prove to be a challenge. In order to do so, blockchain and crypto projects alike will
need to engage users and community members with intuitive user interfaces and user experiences
within applications, built so the front-end has a similar flow so that user is able to understand the functionality.
The use of blockchain and crypto relevant language can also be an issue, which by simplifying, can lead to a
wider audience learning and engaging within crypto communities. A decentralized communication and
larger ecosystem solution will mean users can securely and directly connect and transact with one another,
without having to worry about their privacy, and will give the entire crypto world an attractive solution to pursue
widespread adoption.

8

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

RESTORING USER PRIVACY AND DATA FREEDOM THROUGH
DECENTRALIZATION
Traditionally, communication platforms rely on a centralized server for information and storage of all data
transactions between users. However, on a decentralized network like the blockchain, no information is stored
in one central location, which makes it almost virtually impossible for cybercriminals to hack. Hackers and other
cybercriminals regularly infiltrate entire computer security systems and networks from anywhere in the world,
in a matter of hours. Yet, as soon as information is recorded in a blockchain’s distributed ledger it cannot be
erased, changed, relocated or tampered with in any way. Attacking one central server is no longer enough to
gain control over the entire system. This consensus-based immutability of a decentralized network creates a
transparent and secure framework with vast implications.
Originating from the idea that people should own their own data and not a centralized ledger keeper, like
Facebook, Telegram, WeChat, etc., just waiting for the next hack, a slow uprising has begun to take place with
such campaigns as #DeleteFacebook pushing for users to fully delete their Facebook accounts to protect their
privacy. Following the 2018 Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal and the trial that went along with it, users
of centralized communication platforms around the world have become less oblivious to how applications are
using their data and are ready for an alternative that protects their data, yet opens the door to a new, more
secure global community.
The decentralized, immutable, and secure aspects of blockchain make it most exciting as a viable alternative
to the centralized computing systems of today. Hack after hack has left the world increasingly vulnerable to
cyber theft and exploitation. However, blockchain has the potential to ensure users’ data and privacy can be
safeguarded. While this shift will not occur over night, it is clear the world not only wants, but needs to embrace
decentralization.

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

9

The ALLY Ecosystem
The ALLY Ecosystem delivers a unique incentivization layer that can scale to any blockchain, privacy for
communication as well as fast and secure financial transactions, designed on a Proof of Authority (PoA)
consensus model and offers unique decentralized storage.
The five main components of the ALLY Ecosystem are as follows:
1. ALLY Wallet: a built-in crypto wallet that can perform P2P in-chat crypto transfers as well as transactions
between wallet addresses.
2. ALLY Chat: The new, decentralized, and private place to foster communities and connect with people
globally, without fear of third party entities and government censorship.
3. ALLY Bot Marketplace: Built directly into the ALLY Chat dApp, crypto and blockchain projects alike will
have priority access to a growing userbase to advertise their community management bots as well as buy
exclusive ALLY bots in a globally accessible marketplace.
4. ALLY App Profile: Verified community groups on ALLY Chat that also have a dApp of their own will have the
option to enable an App profile on their ALLY group or channel for ALLY users to easily find the latest version of
other dApps whose communities they are a part of.
5. ALLY Incentivization Layer: Ally’s novel and proprietary incentivization layer can help any blockchain
infrastructure scale faster and will enable our community stakeholders to participate in economic opportunities
and earn token rewards as a result of their support for the network.

10

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

ALLY WALLET
ALLY (Chat) already has a built-in crypto wallet that can perform P2P in-chat crypto transfers as well as
transactions between wallet addresses. The wallet also supports an exclusive VIP Program for ALLY users.
To expand the ALLY Wallet capabilities, an external wallet accessible on any standard web browser was been
developed (in Beta) to ensure more users have access to their funds from anywhere in the world. With this web
browser version, the ALLY Wallet will soon be expanding to a multi-cryptocurrency wallet.

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

11

ALLY CHAT
With all of the centralized platforms housing an increasing number of crypto communities, ALLY Chat is the new,
decentralized and private place to foster communities and connect with people globally, without fear of third part
entities and government censorship. ALLY Chat is a safe haven where people around the world can practice
free speech without retribution and can share data unreservedly without that information being hacked and
manipulated. ALLY Chat is built to secure users’ information and is the communication and crypto hub for the
entire world. With private and group messaging, secure audio and video calling, decentralized file storage, an
in-app multi-currency wallet, in-chat P2P crypto transfers, content publishing, paid media, and more, ALLY Chat
is the first dApp poised to bring crypto mainstream around the world.

12

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

ALLY BOT MARKETPLACE
Built directly into the ALLY Chat dApp, crypto and blockchain projects alike will have priority access to a growing
userbase to advertise their community management bots as well as buy exclusive ALLY bots in a globally
accessible marketplace. ALLY Chat will partner with crypto projects from around the world of many different
categories, gaming, media, logistics, etc. in order to bring its users the best verified communities and unique
management bots. Utilizing the ALLY native tokens, users will have the opportunity to buy and download
multiple bots and services.

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

13

ALLY APP PROFILE
Verified community groups on ALLY Chat that also have a DApp of their own will have the option to enable an
App Profile on their ALLY group or channel for ALLY users to easily find the latest version of other DApps whose
communities they are a part of. With a simple UI showcasing where to download the app, ALLY can bring more
communities together to support other blockchain and crypto applications from around the world.

14

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

ALLY’s INCENTIVE LAYER
ALLY’s novel and proprietary incentivization layer will put users first by enabling our community’s stakeholders
to participate in economic opportunities and earn token rewards as a result of their support for the network.
ALLY will eventually exist as a standalone chain in order to better accommodate other projects that choose
to leverage ALLY’s technology to build on top of. The ALY token makes all of this happen by implementing a
mechanism into the network to encourage user activity and the scaling of future dApps on the network. Possible
use cases for ALY token include a marketplace for decentralized storage on the network and many more
practical applications.

ALLY Incentive Layer Architecture

STORAGE CONTRACT
USING ALLY TOKEN

FILE HASH
ALGORITHM

FILES

MINERS/COMMUNITY EARN
ALLY BY OFFERING CAPACITY

DECENTRALIZED
SERVER
INFRASTRUCTURE

FILE HASH
ALGORITHM

CLIENTS

DECENTRALIZED
SERVER
INFRASTRUCTURE

REPLICATED
AND SPLIT UP

UPTIME
CHECK

ENCRYPTED FILES
DECENTRALIZED
SERVER
INFRASTRUCTURE

CHECK FILE STATUS

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

15

ALLY Chat History
The first version of the Ally dApp was released to the public in beta on August 1, 2018, available on the Google
Play Store, Apple App Store and a downloadable APK (Android Application Package) through the getally.
io website. The Ally team followed the launch with a global roadshow starting August 7, 2018 visiting over 14
countries on 4 continents in 3 weeks to promote the release of Ally and form partnerships with blockchain
hubs around the world. Token utility features were released such as P2P In-Chat Crypto Transfers, Premium
Broadcast Channels, Premium Sticker Collections.
By the end of October 2018, Ally reached over 100,000 users and by February 2019 the app had reached
over 150,000. Also in February, the Ally team released the fully decentralized beta 2.0 version - which included
P2P Crypto Transfers, Decentralized Messaging, Decentralized File Storage with automatic backup and the
first token utility in the app, Premium Broadcast Channels with automatic payments, keyword search tags and
improved the Global Search function so it’s easier for users to find and add one another as contacts. In March
2019, the Ally team further optimized the Android app version with a bottom bar navigation and made it easier
for users to invite their friends and contacts to join Ally. The Ally team has been working in the background over
the last few months enhancing the overall app performance, fixing technical bugs, building out new features like
blog and article publishing, and improving the overall encryption functionality to ensure that users feel the most
secure using the Ally app. The team is also actively working on the Incentive Layer TestNet.
The Ally dApp currently has three available languages, English, Chinese and Russian, and will be adding
language support in Korean soon.
The current features built into the communication app are as follows:
•

Private P2P chats

•

Group Chats

•

Broadcast Channels

•

Group and Channel Links

•

Secret, Disappearing Messages (In P2P Chats)

•

Decentralized Messaging

•

Message Encryption

•

File, Photo and Video Transfers

•

Voice Messages

•

Decentralized File Storage

•

P2P Audio Calling

16

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

•

Voting Polls in Groups

•

Keyword Tags for Groups and Channels

•

P2P In-Chat Crypto Transfers

•

Built-in Crypto Wallet

•

Screenshot Notifications

•

Blocking and Banning Users

•

Automatic Backups

•

Light and Dark Theme

•

Custom Chat Backgrounds

•

Global Discover Search with Keyword Tags

•

App Passcode Setting

•

QR Codes and Scanners

Features on the roadmap coming soon:
•

Blog and Article Publishing

•

Candy Center

•

Multi-Currency Wallet Support

•

Paid Storage

•

P2P & Group Video Calling

•

Live Media Streaming

•

Smart Contracts

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

17

ALLY Decentralized Translation
ServiceALLY Decentralized

Translation Service

IMPORTANT NOTE: No data is ever
stored on the ALLY Translation Server.

ALLY Decentralized Translation Server

P2P Messaging
User A

User B

Conversations and Messaging are P2P. When a translation is
required, that data is sent to the ALLY Translation Server. The
translated message is returned to the ALLY user.

18

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

ALLY Ecosystem Roadmap

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

19

ALLY Token (ALY) Utility Token
Membership & Functionalities
ALLY is a utility token that will offer benefits across the entire ALLY Pay Ecosystem. These ecosystem privileges
will enable access to various features and actions across the various ALLY components and applications. Initial
usage of these platforms will be free, and the token will serve as means of access to unlock premium features,
membership levels or utilize various extra functionalities.
Token Utility Function Currently Active in the ALLY Chat dApp:
Premium Channels: Users on ALLY Chat create their own Premium Broadcast Channels. The creators of
the chats or influencers will be able to own and promote their own contents across the channel. They have
the privilege of setting a subscription fee for other users to follow their channels, including a one-time fee or a
monthly rate.
In-Chat and Wallet-to-Wallet Crypto Transfers: Users on ALLY Chat are currently available to receive and
transfer tokens from within the built in ALLY Wallet and from directly within Private Chats with other users with
low transactional costs.
Premium Storage: ALLY Chat users can use tokens to own Premium Storage in the network
Grandmasternodes, the ultimate supporters of the blockchain infrastructure, to ensure their files are securely
stored. Starting from $5 USD a month per 1TB.
Premium Stickers: Creative designers will benefit greatly from this. Artists can upload their stickers into the
ALLY Chat online sticker market. The Artist and ALLY team will predetermine a USD amount set for the sticker
set, and the artists will receive a percentage of the reward every time an ALLY Chat user downloads that sticker
set. The following features and functionalities are not currently on the ALLY Chat roadmap, but have been
discussed at length and many will be coming soon:
Advertising & Media Center: ALLY Chat Group Chat and Broadcast Channel admins will be able to charge a
certain fee to companies and projects wanting to post advertisements in said chats. The rates charged to the
advertiser will be based on group or channels popularity and a set amount will automatically go to the admin for
allowing the advertisement.

20

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

Live & Recorded Podcasts: ALLY Chat Group Chat and Broadcast Channels admins will be able to host live
audio streams where ALLY Chat users will be able to join the group or channel to listen. Once podcasts are
finished, they will be saved in a media library attached to the group or channel as well as in the chat for users to
access after the recording has commenced. Admins may be able to charge a fee to live recording attendance
and listening after the fact.
Gamifying ALLY Chat: ALLY Chat will offer rewards for accomplishing certain tasks and milestones throughout
the application, rankings will be available to other users on a leader board further encouraging users to compete
one another, increasing the daily active user numbers. Ex. User creates 20 Group Chats, they receive 100 ALLY
tokens.
Customized Dating App: Meet other ALLY Chat users of a certain class, income level, education level, etc.
Initial use of the feature will be free, however, to enhance and elaborate more on the criteria or to fill out more
bio options, ALLY Chat users will need to pay in tokens
Personalized Workout Plan: ALLY Chat users will have undeniable access to top dietitians and fitness
instructors around the world. Users will be able to pay instructors in ALLY tokens.

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

21

The Team

Johnathan Greenspoon
CMO

Gabriel Hernandez

Eric Eddy

Head of Mobile Dev.

Mobile Developer

Mohamed Timbo

Priyanka Srinivasan

Community Manager

22

Tim Yano

Head of Blockchain

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

Technical Analyst

Conclusion
To date, much has been promised with blockchain without many tangible results. While this may be
disheartening to some, it should be noted that most groundbreaking technologies take time to fully develop and
mature. Moreover, it may take the general public an extended period of time to fully recognize the value and
benefit of making the switch to a distributed ledger system. While scalability has been an ongoing challenge for
the industry as a whole, crypto is still in its early days and undoubtedly enhancements will be made that make
the technology accessible to the general public, and the ALLY Ecosystem will do just that.
While it took most time to fully understand how many Big Tech companies actually generated revenue while
providing free services, most now recognize that users in such systems are the actual product. While many
hacks and data breaches have unfortunately made people learn this lesson the hard way, it is never too late
to introduce a new era of online business models; one where the incentives of all stakeholders are properly
aligned.
Our current financial system is much like the tech industry: misaligned incentives and entrenched giants
consistently putting themselves ahead of their customers. Central banks and powerful governments are able to
manipulate these systems to fulfill political interests. Therefore, the outcome that is usually in the best interest
of the people is the one that is the rarest. The time has come for a paradigm shift; a move to decentralized,
distributed, and efficient systems that prioritize users and end customers over those at the top.

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

23

References
Collier, Kevin. “Iran Joins Russia In Banning Telegram.” BuzzFeed News, BuzzFeed News, 2 May 2018,
buzzfeednews.com/article/kevincollier/iran-telegram-app-ban-russia.
Falconer, Rebecca. “Oppressive Countries Used a Newly-Discovered WhatsApp Flaw to Spy on Activists.”
Axios, 14 May 2019, axios.com/whatsapp-uncovers-security-flaw-exposing-spyware-vulnerability-e7709499b87b-42df-bff3-5d2a437f2114.html.
Sabin, Dyani (January 3, 2018). Futurism. Everything you need to know about cryptocurrency and why it’s the
future of money. Retrieved on January 17, 2018 from https://futurism.com/cryptocurrency-future-money-bitcoin/
Valery, Jorge Luis Pérez, and Abdel Alvarado. “Venezuela Gives a Rare Look at Its Economy. It’s an Ugly, Ugly
Picture.” CNN, Cable News Network, 29 May 2019, cnn.com/2019/05/29/economy/venezuela-inflation-intl/
index.html.
Young, Joseph. “Chinese Crypto Bans on WeChat Accounts, Events, and Exchanges: What Happened and
Why.” Cointelegraph, Cointelegraph, 14 Feb. 2019, cointelegraph.com/news/chinese-crypto-bans-on-wechataccounts-events-and-exchanges-what-happened-and-why.

24

MAKE CRYPTO MAINSTREAM

