1

ANCHOR WHITEPAPER
ANCHORED BY THE GLOBAL ECONOMY
Edition 5.3
Updated October 2019

www.theanchor.io

2

Table of Contents
Table of contents

3

I. INTRODUCTION

5

II. THE PROBLEM STATEMENT AND MARKET ANALYSIS

6

Traditional ​Fiat Currencies

6

Cryptocurrencies

8

Stablecoins

9

Conclusive Issue

III. ANCHOR AS A SOLUTION

1​2

1​3

Anchor’s Tokenomics: Three Pillars of Stabilizing Architecture

1​4

Pillar #1: Monetary Measurement Unit (MMU)

1​5

Pillar #2: Two-Token Model

1​6

Pillar #3: Decentralized Governing Body of Validators

22

IV. APPLICATIONS AND BENEFITS

2​4

V. PROJECT MILESTONES

2​6

Milestones Accomplished to Date as of July 2019

2​6

Forward-looking Developments and Objectives for the Next 24 Months

2​7

VI. ANCHOR TOKEN ALLOCATION

2​8

VII. TEAM

2​9

Leadership Team

2​9

Monetary Measurement Unit (MMU) Team

30

Blockchain, Software, and IT Team

31

Business Development and Sales Team

3​2

www.theanchor.io

3

Legal Team

3​3

​Partner Network

3​3

VIII​. CONCLUSION

3​4

In Summary

3​4

How To Get Involved

3​4

Risk Factors and Disclaimers

3​5

www.theanchor.io

4

I. INTRODUCTION
Anchor is a two-token, algorithmic stablecoin pegged to the sustainable and predictable
growth trend of the global economy. Anchor offers token users long-term price stability,
protection against inflation, and preservation of purchasing power, while hedging against daily
market volatility.
Providing an alternative to fiat-pegged stablecoins, Anchor aims to remain stable regardless of
any fiat currency’s strength, market fluctuations, or economic recessions.
By leveraging the sustainable growth trend of the global economy, Anchor offers stable
financial solutions to individuals, businesses, organizations, and governments.
Our vision is to create a stable platform for any crypto or traditional currency to peg their
value to, and to be a cornerstone for price stability as a global currency and financial standard.
Anchor’s core mission is to be a driver of global economic stability.

www.theanchor.io

5

II. THE PROBLEM STATEMENT AND
MARKET ANALYSIS
The global financial industry faces a number of serious challenges in the 21st century.
Currently, both traditional monetary systems and cryptocurrencies have yet to conquer the
issues of economic instability, inflation, currency manipulation, and price fluctuations.

Traditional Fiat Currencies
Fiat currencies are consistently depreciating in value due to inflation, market fluctuations,
political biases, and other dynamic economic scenarios. According to ​recent research
conducted by the Bank of International Settlements​, the top 10 most traded currencies by
value are:
1. US dollar (USD)
2. Euro (EUR)
3. Japanese yen (JPY)
4. Pound sterling (GBP)
5. Australian dollar (AUD)
6. Canadian dollar (CAD)
7. Swiss franc (CHF)
8. Chinese renminbi (CNH)
9. Swedish krona (SEK)
10. New Zealand dollar (NZD)
Below are statistics demonstrating how each of the top 10 most traded currencies have
depreciated in value over the last 25 years (beginning in 1994). The following data is based on
end-of-year annual inflation rates for the period 1994 through 2018:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

US dollar (USD) has lost more than 55% of its purchasing power.
Euro (EUR) has lost approximately 44% of its purchasing power.
Japanese yen (JPY) has lost more than 5% of its purchasing power.
Pound sterling (GBP) has lost nearly 51% of its purchasing power.
Australian dollar (AUD) has lost more than 63% of its purchasing power.

www.theanchor.io

6

6. Canadian dollar (CAD) has lost approximately 45% of its purchasing power.
7. Swiss franc (CHF) has lost approximately 14% of its purchasing power.
8. Chinese renminbi (CNH) has lost nearly 86% of its purchasing power.
9. Swedish krona (SEK) has lost more than 38% of its purchasing power.
10. New Zealand dollar (NZD) has lost about 50% of its purchasing power.
Due to fiat price fluctuations, a majority of the currencies we use on a daily basis have
significantly decreased in purchasing power and are a mere fraction of what they were in value
a quarter century ago.
US DOLLAR PURCHASING POWER, 1800-PRESENT
The value of the US dollar across time measured against the $100 USD benchmark in 1800.

www.theanchor.io

7

Cryptocurrencies
Cryptocurrencies are inherently speculative, volatile, and not a reliable option for use as a
daily currency, for conservative portfolio diversification, or as a dependable store of value,
thus discouraging usage of cryptocurrencies as a medium of exchange.
There are many obstacles facing mainstream adoption of cryptocurrencies with the main
culprit being high volatility and fluctuation in token value. For instance,​ b​itcoin is liable to
show volatility with 10x more changes in price versus the U.S. dollar​ in a relatively short period
of time.
At the time of this writing (July 2019)​, bitcoin continues to lead in market capitalization, user
base, and popularity surpassing the $12,500 USD mark once again after a year and a half, and
then taking a drop below it again. The unpredictable price swings remain, and the inherent
volatility and speculative nature of the majority of cryptocurrencies on the market have
carved out an increasingly popular niche for stablecoins.
Bitcoin (BTC) Price Changes from 2009 to 2019.

One of the most common critiques of bitcoin​ from central bankers and economists, is that
bitcoin is not a currency because it lacks price stability. Typically, the mandate of central
bankers is to optimize for relatively stable purchasing power (although currency depreciation
at roughly 2.5% per year is considered tolerable). Lacking any mechanism to manage exchange
rates, bitcoin is considered ​a priori​ not a currency. Implicit in the conventional view of what
constitutes a sovereign currency is some notion of management.

www.theanchor.io

8

However, decentralized currency systems are gaining significant traction. There were
approximately 2,129 cryptocurrencies being traded with a total market capitalization of
$164.88bn as of April 2nd 2019​. At the time of this writing as of July 2nd 2019, there are
2,308​ cryptocurrencies with a total market cap of ​$313,235,923,106​, nearly doubling in
market cap in just three months.
The market is undeniably growing, expanding, and maturing, demonstrating a promising future
for digital currencies and decentralized blockchain applications. The ​top 10 cryptocurrencies
(as of July 2nd 2019)​ include BTC, ETH, XRP, BCH, LTC, EOS, BNB, BSV, ADA, TRX, and
represent roughly 85% of the total market value.

Stablecoins
As a response to the volatility of traditional cryptocurrencies, stablecoins have carved out a
market niche with high-demand due to their promise of price stability, practical usage, and
secure, convenient transactions.
Stablecoins are cryptocurrencies that aim to maintain a stable value, and prevent fluctuations
dependant on market changes. Emerging stablecoins generally fall into one of ​four categories​.
1.

Fiat-collateralized stablecoins ​are the most common type of stablecoins and are
collateralized, or backed by fiat currency like USD, EUR, or GBP, and in theory are
supposed to be backed at a 1:1 ratio.
As of July 2nd 2019, USD-backed stablecoins are currently dominating the market
exceeding ​$4.5 billion​ ​with Tether retaining its first place, despite its transparency
concerns and even after revealing that it is only backed 74% by USD and not 1:1 as its
original claim.
Following Tether in the top 10 stablecoins are USD Coin, TrueUSD, Paxos Standard
Token, Dai, Stasis Eurs, Gemini Dollar, bitCNY, Reserve Rights, and StableUSD.
As cryptocurrency research firm Diar notes​, there has been a major surge in USD
stablecoin trading vo​lumes, with​ ​Circle​ ​and ​Coinbase​-backed USD Coin (USDC)
posting a 130% uptick in volume between April and May 2019, hitting $3.6 billion in
May compared with $1.6 billion in April.

www.theanchor.io

9

2. Commodity-collateralized stablecoins ​are backed by other kinds of exchangeable
assets, such as precious metals. The most common commodity to be collateralized is
gold — however, there are also stablecoins backed by oil, real estate, and baskets of
various precious metals.
Currently, ​Digix Gold token​ (DGX) is among the most popular gold tokenization
projects in the cryptocurrency industry. ​Tiberius Coin (TCX)​ i​s backed by not one
commodity, but by a combination of seven precious metals commonly used in
technology hardware. ​PROPY has created a unified property store​ for the global real
estate industry allowing home buyers to purchase property internationally without
worrying about jurisdictions or title deeds.
However, even the most popular commodity-collateralized stablecoin, Digix has a
relatively low daily ​trading volume of $25,128 USD with a $4,830,842 USD market cap
in comparison with the most popular fiat-backed stablecoin, Tether with a ​t​rading
volume of ​$27,352,398,423 USD with a $3,653,582,874 USD market cap​, a
​ s of July
3rd 2019.
3. Crypto-collateralized stablecoins ​are backed by other cryptocurrencies and are much
more decentralized than the former two categories. ​Crypto-collateralized stablecoins
allow processes to be even more trustless, secure, and transparent. There is no single
entity controlling funds, and they enjoy ease of liquidity, but being the most complex
form of stablecoin they ​have not gained much traction yet​.
The most popular and promising example of a crypto-collateralized stablecoin at the
moment is​ Dai​. Created by MakerDAO, Dai is a stablecoin that has a face-value pegged
to USD, but is actually backed by Ethereum (ETH) that is locked up in smart contracts.
MakerDAO limits the effects of market volatility through a 1:1 soft peg to the U.S.
dollar, maintained with an underlying basket of crypto assets, collateralized debt
positions, and automated stability mechanisms.
Although in practice this concept has not worked out as planned when it comes to price
stability. ​DAI has been below $1 for much of 2019​ and has even dropped under $0.95
on a couple of occasions. MakerDAO users have therefore voted to increase the
stability fee on six separate occasions this year, with the most recent vote, at the time
of this writing, on June 27th 2019 deciding that the fee will rise from 11.5% (as
decided​ on April 11​) to a high of ​17.5% per year​. Even with this hike, the MakerDAO
community is ​not confident that the value of DAI won't keep fluctuating​.
4. Non-collateralized stablecoins.​ An ​a​lgorithmically governed approach​ to expanding
and contracting the currency supply that is modeled after central banks’ management

www.theanchor.io

10

over their nations’ monetary supplies. Utilizing algorithms to automatically increase or
decrease the amount of stablecoins in circulation for a low-volatility digital currency.
Among the first models proposed was the Seigniorage Shares Model named after
Robert Sams' ​article​ from October 2014, ​which describes stablecoins with
flexible/elastic money supply governed by algorithms that programmatically buy and
sell a stablecoin’s tokens in order to maintain the token price near the intended peg.
Non-collateralized coins are scalable, the most decentralized type of stablecoin that is
not reliant on any asset’s strength. Meaning, even when another global recession
occurs, or the entire crypto market crashes, an algorithmic stablecoin would be able to
survive and maintain its stability. These are next-generation stablecoins that are
disrupting the monetary paradigm, creating the utmost scrutiny by regulatory bodies
while also arousing considerable interest.
Attempts from ​SagaCoin​, ​Basis​, ​Kowala​, and others were unsuccessful due to being
shut down by US regulatory bodies before even given a chance; others have pivoted
towards different business models such as ​Havven into Syntheti​x,​ which transitioned
into a crypto-backed synthetic asset platform​; while others that looked promising
during the ICO boom of 2017 have not been heard from since the bear market of
2018.
Currently, the most well known elastic coin is ​Ampleforth, which rebranded and was
formerly known as Fragments​, t​ rading at $1.46 USD at a volume of $165,437 USD​, ​as
of July 3rd 2019​. ​However, ​Amples are in fact not stablecoins​, and actually thrive off
volatility, also known as Smart Commodity Money.
Anchor belongs to the next-generation, non-collateralized category of stablecoins.

www.theanchor.io

11

Conclusive Issue
Most major fiat currencies are declining in value and losing purchasing power year after year.
Cryptocurrencies are highly volatile with daily fluctuations that do not offer practical use as a
daily payment currency.
Stablecoins offer the greatest potential to drive widespread adoption for digital currencies as
a stable and global medium of exchange.
Currently, the top 10 stablecoins ​are fiat-backed, centralized coins representing digitized
versions of real world assets. Tokenizing fiats, such as the USD, makes fiat-pegged stablecoins
susceptible to the same vulnerabilities, market fluctuations, inflation, and depreciation in
value as their traditional counterparts.
The recent surge in the market and large trading volume of stablecoins, as well as entry into
the stablecoin market by giants like Facebook and JP Morgan, among others, demonstrates
that there is considerable appetite for a token that offers long-term price stability, liquidity,
and scalability, while hedging against volatility and inflation.
With failed attempts from previous algorithmic stablecoins aiming to be the next global
currency, what will it take for a next-generation stablecoin to succeed and evolve the global
monetary system?
The core missing element is a non-flationary baseline, a stable financial standard that is based
on real value and maintains stability over time. In order to be stable, a currency must be
pegged to a non-volatile unit of value with a predictable growth trend, which can also act as a
buffer against inflation and maintain purchasing power over time.

www.theanchor.io

12

III. ANCHOR AS A SOLUTION
Anchor is a two-token, algorithmic stablecoin pegged to the sustainable and predictable
growth trend of the global economy. Anchor offers token users long-term price stability,
protection against inflation, and preservation of purchasing power, all while hedging against
market volatility.
Stablecoins backed by fiat and real world assets are susceptible to the same market
fluctuations, depreciation, and loss of purchasing power as their traditional counterparts to
which they are pegged.
The global economy, on the other hand, has a sustainable and predictable growth trend with
global GDP steadily increasing over time. World economic growth has increased at an average
rate of 2.5% annually for the past 25 years despite market fluctuations within each country,
thus providing a more reliable measure of value than any single fiat. Data from the World Bank
shows that since 1960, ​global GDP has expanded from $1.3trn to $80.7trn​, with ​2019
projections approximating $88.08 trillion​.
By leveraging the sustainable growth trend of the global economy, Anchor offers stable
financial solutions to individuals, businesses, organizations, and governments.
Fiat-pegged stablecoins are a natural progression in the evolution of stablecoins. As with any
disruptive technology or emerging market there is a transition process starting with we are
most familiar.
Anchor is the next generation stablecoin leveraging the power of technology and algorithms to
create a scalable and objective measure of value resilient to currency manipulation, recessions
and other market fluctuations.
Providing a much needed alternative to fiat-pegged stablecoins, Anchor’s aims to remain
stable regardless of any fiat currency’s strength, market fluctuations, or economic recessions
relying on three pillars of stabilizing architecture upon which Anchor’s tokenomics is built.

www.theanchor.io

13

Anchor’s Tokenomics:
Three Pillars of Stabilizing Architecture
With the intent to be inherently stable, Anchor has designed a stabilizing architecture resting
on three pillars that work together to prevent volatility and fluctuation within the Anchor
System. The three pillars include the following:
Pillar #1 — Monetary Measurement Unit (MMU)
Anchor is pegged to global economic growth via a non-flationary financial index known as the
Monetary Measurement Unit (MMU). The price of Anchor (ANCT) is determined by various
algorithms that create this index taking into account numerous macroeconomic indicators
from more than 190 countries to create the most accurate measure of value that exists in the
world today.
Pillar #2 — Two-Token Model
Anchor’s next-generation tokenomics incorporates an elastic supply rule that adjusts the
quantity of coin supply proportionately to changes in Anchor’s market value with a two-token,
burn-mint model that adhere to naturally occurring Contraction and Expansion Phases.
Pillar #3 — Decentralized Governing Body of Validators
The Anchor System will be governed by up to 21 established institutions, enterprises, and
organizations across multiple industries and geographies with competing priorities to
minimize risk of collusion, with one slot reserved for parent company Anchor, AG. Anchor’s
governance model protects its token holders by guaranteeing the integrity of Anchor’s price
and its stability in maintaining equilibrium with the MMU, as well as ensuring the value of the
MMU accurately reflects the growth trend of the global economy.

www.theanchor.io

14

Pillar #1: Monetary Measurement Unit (MMU)
Pegging Anchor to Global Economic Growth
The MMU is a financial index created by an algorithm that takes into account the GDP of more
than 190 countries from the last 25 years, further stabilized with forex indicators from a
basket of currencies and premium sovereign bond yields from 10 of the world's strongest
economies.
By developin​g an algorithmically calculated fin​ancial ​index​ based on global GDP, Anchor has
created what is intended to be the first reliable financial standard and measure of value since
the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) ​Special Drawing Rights​ (SDR), circa 1969. The SDR is
exclusive only to ​IMF​ member countries and based on a basket of five currencies, whereas the
MMU is decentralized, inclusive, and based on a dynamic currency basket of 10 of the
strongest economies, based on their GDP and participation in the global economy each year.
Anchor’s MMU basket is dynamic in that each year it will contain currencies from 10 of the
strongest national economies based on annual GDP and participation in the global economy.
At the beginning of each fiscal year, the system will re-evaluate and update the basket to
ensure that the 10 strongest and most reliable national currencies are consistently
represented to bring stability and real value to the system. The basket is designed to ensure
the strongest currencies are consistently represented. The evaluation is completely objective
and based on each country’s performance and participation each year, not related to a political
agenda or affiliation.
Factoring in daily fluctuating macroeconomic data from more than 190 countries, the MMU’s
calculations also include the FX Indicator and the MMU Premium.
The ​FX Indicator​ indexes currencies from 10 of the world’s strongest economies based on
their participation in the world economy (> 1%). The FX indicator uses international market
exchange rates for the most relevant currencies in the global economy and enables the daily
nominal expression of the MMU.
The ​MMU Premium​ calculates the amount of growth that can be expected based on sovereign
bond yields of AAA-rated countries, as well as the average inflation rates. This Premium has
been approximately 0.4% annually for the last 25 years.
The MMU is calculated via the application of a proprietary algorithm conceived by Anchor
Founder and CEO Daniel Popa and further developed by Anchor’s team of PhD economists,

www.theanchor.io

15

including macroeconomics researcher and Professor Dr. Zoran Grubisić, and quantitative
finance expert Aleksandar Manić.
Price stability​ is not only about stabilizing the unit-of-account, but also stabilizing the
currency’s store-of-value. The MMU’s algorithm is constantly growing in sophistication,
accumulating more data and macroeconomic indicators over time to reflect the real growth of
the global economy with even more accuracy. As a result, Anchor will be aligned with an ever
more precise index with the goal of creating the most stable and predictable value peg in the
world.

Pillar #2: Two-Token Model
Anchor’s Tokenomics is Governed by an Elastic Supply and Demand Principle
Anchor consists of a two-token model composed of Anchor Tokens (ANCT), that serve as the
main currency/payment tokens; and Dock Tokens (DOCT), the utility tokens that stabilize the
currency ensuring ANCT remains pegged to the MMU regardless of external fluctuations.
DOCT cannot be used as a means of payment or transferred from one token holder to another.
Anchor’s flexible currency supply is regulated by its Contraction and Expansion stabilizing
mechanisms through which Anchor’s system programmatically contracts or expands ANCT
and DOCT. The system also mints / burns ANCT tokens in response to ANCT’s price
deviations relative to the MMU. DOCT is used as a utility token to incentivize participants to
facilitate Expansion and Contractions Phases by exchanging one token for the other.
A ​Contraction Phase​ is triggered when ANCT’s price falls below the Contraction Threshold
(currently -1% below the value of the MMU) due to a decrease in demand. When this occurs,
an open auction with a reward system will be initiated to incentivize token holders to trade
their ANCT for DOCT for favorable exchange rates in order to stabilize the currency and
maintain equilibrium between ANCT’s price and the value of the MMU.
ANCT holders choosing to participate in ​Contraction Phase Auctions (CPAs) ​will benefit from
DOCT incentives in the form of preferential exchange rates with bonuses for exchanged
volume and speed of reaction.

www.theanchor.io

16

An​ Expansion Phase​ is triggered when the exchange rate for ANCT rises above the Expansion
Threshold in relation to the MMU due to an increase in demand causing a decrease in supply.
At this time, the system will incentivize DOCT owners to convert their tokens into ANCT at a
1:1 ratio, so then users can trade and sell on exchanges and transfer ANCT between Anchor
Wallets. If equilibrium is still not met, ANCT will be airdropped to holders until its price comes
back down and returns to the value of the MMU.
The sole function of DOCT is to grant the holder access to participate in the Anchor System,
and to be converted into ANCT during Expansion Phases. DOCT can only be exchanged during
Contraction and Expansion phases on the Anchor platform for ANCT, not traded on
exchanges.

Breakdown of Contraction Phase
If the reported exchange rate for ANCT (​ATRP​current​) is below the current value of the MMU by

a margin greater than or equal to the Contraction Phase Threshold (​∆ATcontraction
​
),
​ with a value

that has been agreed upon by the system validators (i.e. ​∆AT​contraction ​≤ ​MMU - ​ATRPcurrent
​
),
​ the
system will initiate an open auction for purchasing ANCT from holders in exchange for new
DOCT at preferential rates for holders, which will be redeemable for ANCT at a 1:1 ratio if and
when certain conditions are met in the future.
The number of ANCT that will be burned to reduce the market cap (​∆Acirc
​ )​ will be calculated
according to the following formula:

∆Acirc
​ ​ = ((​MMU​ - ​ATRP​current)​ * ​A​circ)/​
​ MMU​, where
∆AT​contraction ​≤ ​MMU​ - ​ATRPcurrent
​
Acirc
​ ​ — circulating supply of Anchor Tokens that has to be reduced by ​∆Acirc
​ ​ to keep the peg
∆AT​contraction — Contraction Phase Threshold, typically expressed as an agreed upon
percentage of the official value of the MMU (e.g. 0.01 * MMU, or 1% of the MMU value)

During the Contraction Phase Auction (CPA) all ANCT owners will have an opportunity to sell
any number of the coins they own worth more than or equal to $1,000 at the time of sale that
is less than or equal to the number of coins that still have to be reclaimed from the users and

www.theanchor.io

17

burned to keep the peg. In return, they will get more DOCT (​N​DOCTi​ )​ than the amount of ANCT
they are selling (​N​ANCT​i),
​ according to the following formula:
NDOCT
​
​
​ ​i​), where
​i​ = ​NANCT
i​ ​/(​k​V​i​ * ​kR

k​Vi​ ​ is the Volume Discount approved to the i-th responder

k​R​i​ is the Quickness of Response Discount approved to the i-th responder
Token holders can agree to sell any amount of ANCT that still need to be burned at their turn
(based on the sale terms and conditions), and obtain more DOCT in return due to a discount
belonging to the corresponding range (as outlined in the table below).

Terms and Conditions During the Contraction Phase Auction
Volume Discount: Terms and Conditions During the CPA
ANCT to burn [USD worth at the time of sale]

Volume Discount, ​kV​ ​ = ​NANCT
​
/​​ NDOCT
​
​ [%]

$1,000 - $99,999

0.99 or 1%

$100,000 - $249,999

0.98 or 2%

$250,000 - $499,999

0.97 or 3%

$500,000 - $999,999

0.96 or 4%

$1,000,000 - $1,999,999

0.95 or 5%

$2,000,000 - $4,999,999

0.94 or 6%

$5,000,000 or more

0.93 or 7%

This discount is greater if the buyer is among the first five responders to the sale:

Discounts for Buyer Response Sequence During CPA

Order of Response to CPA (i-th responder)

Quickness of Response Discount, ​kR​ ​ [%]

www.theanchor.io

18

1st Responder

0.9 or 10%

2nd Responder

0.92 or 8%

3rd Responder

0.95 or 5%

4th Responder

0.98 or 2%

5th Responder

0.99 or 1%

Other Responders

1.00 or 0%

DOCT purchased during the auction will be placed in the Contraction Phase Queue (CPQ).
They will be converted to ANCT either after their respective waiting periods, shown in the list
below, or earlier, provided that a sufficient number of ANCT is generated during the
Expansion Phases that occur after the auction:

● The first $1,000 to $99,999 of each buyer's purchased worth of Dock Tokens will be
●
●
●
●
●
●

converted to ANCT after 2 (two) months.
The next $1 to $150,000 (if applicable) of each buyer's purchased worth of DOCT will
be converted to Anchor Tokens after 4 (four) months.
The next $1 to $250,000 (if applicable) of each buyer's purchased worth of DOCT will
be converted to ANCT after 6 (six) months.
The next $1 to $500,000 (if applicable) of each buyer's purchased worth of DOCT will
be converted to Anchor Tokens after 10 (ten) months.
The next $1 to $1,000,000 (if applicable) of each buyer's purchased worth of DOCT
will be converted to ANCT after 15 (fifteen) months.
The next $1 to $3,000,000 (if applicable) of each buyer's purchased worth of DOCT
will be converted to Anchor Tokens after 20 (twenty) months.
The remaining amount (if applicable) of each buyer's purchased worth of DOCT will be
converted to ANCT after 25 (twenty-five) months.

The Contraction Phase Queue
All the issued DOCT are tallied and ordered based on their release dates. This ordered
sequence of DOCT belonging to their respective holders is referred to as the Contraction
Phase Queue (CPQ). DOCT with shorter waiting periods will be exchanged for Anchor Tokens
earlier than those with longer waiting periods.

www.theanchor.io

19

Consequently, the initial ordered sequence in the Contraction Phase Queue (​QCP0
​ )​ is formed
as an array:

Q​CP0​ = ​Q​CP​(​t​0)​ = (​t​EXPd1,​ ​tEXPd2
​
​
​, …, ​t​EXPk​, …, ​tEXPDcpq0
​)
where
t​0​ represents the time of the creation of the CPQ after the first response to the first Dock
Tokens auction,

t​EXPdk​ represents the k-th (k = 1, 2, …, ​D​CPQ0​) Dock’s release date, where
t​EXPd1​ ≤ ​t​EXPd2​ ≤ … ​tEXPdk
​
​ ≤ … ≤ ​t​EXPDcpq0
The order of DOCT in the Contraction Phase Queue is redone after each new auction, as all
the newly issued DOCTare added to the CPQ.

Breakdown of Expansion Phase
When the reported exchange rate for ANCT (​ATRPcurrent
​
)​ is above the current value of 1 MMU

by a margin greater or equal than the Expansion Phase Threshold (​∆AT​expansion​), with a value
that has been agreed upon by the system validators (i.e. ​∆AT​expansion ​≤ ​ATRP​current - ​MMU)​ , new
ANCT (​AEP
​ )​ will be issued:

AEP
​ ​ = ​∆Acirc
​ ​ = ((​ATRP​current​ - ​MMU)​ * ​A​circ)/​
​ MMU,​ where
∆AT​expansion ​≤ ​ATRP​current​ - ​MMU
Acirc
​ ​ — circulating supply of ANCT that has to be increased by ​∆A​circ​ to keep the peg
∆AT​expansion — Expansion Phase threshold, typically expressed as an agreed upon percentage of
the official value of the MMU (e.g. 0.01 * MMU, or 1% of the MMU value)

After the creation of AEP amount of new ANCT, they are used to redeem the first DEP = AEP
amount of DOCT from the CPQ. The required number of new ANCTis then minted and
distributed to DOCT owners by converting DOCT into ANCT 1:1 according to their order in
the CPQ. After conversion, all the redeemed DOCT are burned.
If there are no more outstanding DOCT, any remaining new ANCT are distributed by
airdropping them to users or system-reserved allocations by means of random selection with

www.theanchor.io

20

pre-specified statistical probabilities. Fifty percent of the airdropped ANCT will be distributed
among the system-reserved allocations (see Table 1 below), whereas the remaining 50% of the
airdropped ANCT will be distributed among the non-system allocations (see Table 1 below)
belonging to various ANCT holders.
Table 1 - Expansion Phase Airdrop Allocations
SYSTEM-RESERVED ALLOCATIONS [50%]

NON-SYSTEM ALLOCATIONS [50%]

VALIDATORS

INDIVIDUAL ANCT HOLDERS

TREASURY

COUNTRIES

OPERATIONS & MANAGEMENT

PARTNERS

SALES & MARKETING

CONSULTANTS

RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

ADVISORS

GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE
LEGAL & REGULATORY
ANCHOR AG
CONTINGENCY

All current holders of ANCT (i.e. those holding ANCT at the beginning of the initiated
Expansion Phase), non-system allocations and system-reserved allocations participate in the
process, and the probabilities are determined by the following criteria:
●
●

Users who purchased more DOCT overall have better chances of getting new ANCT
airdropped to their account;
Users with more ANCT at the beginning of the Expansion Phase have better chances of
getting new ANCT airdropped to their account.

Each system-reserved allocation’s probability ​PSRi
​ of being picked as the recipient of an
airdropped ANCT is calculated according to the following formula:
PSRi
​ ​ = (​D​SRi​ ​+​ ​ASRi
​ ​)/( ​DSRi
​ ​ ​+​ ​A​SRi​)
D​SRi​ - number of all historically-owned DOCT by the ​i-​ th system-reserved allocation;

www.theanchor.io

21

A​SRi - number of ANCT belonging to the ​i-​ th system-reserved allocation at the beginning of the
Expansion Phase in progress;
​D​SRi​ - number of all historically-owned DOCT by all system-reserved allocations;
​ ​SRi - number of all ANCT belonging to all system-reserved allocations at the beginning of the
A
Expansion Phase in progress.

Each token user’s/non-system allocation’s probability ​P​UNSj of being picked as the recipient of
an airdropped ANCT is calculated according to the following formula:
PUNSj
​ ​ = (​D​UNSj​ ​+​ ​AUNSj
​ ​)/(​ D​all​ - ​D​SRi ​+​ ​ A​circ​ - ​ ​ASRi
​ ​)
D​UNSj​ - number of all historically-owned DOCT by the ​j​-th user or a non-system allocation;
A​UNSj - number of ANCT belonging to the ​j​-th user or a non-system allocation at the beginning of the
Expansion Phase in progress;
D​all​ - number of all historically-issued DOCT;
​D​SRi​ - number of all historically-owned DOCTby all system-reserved allocations;
A​circ​ - total circulating supply of ANCT at the beginning of the Expansion Phase in progress;
​A​SRi - number of all ANCT belonging to all system-reserved allocations at the beginning of the
Expansion Phase in progress.
*Neither ANCT nor DOCT represent a debt, derivative or equity claim against Anchor AG, or any legal entity. ANCT
are the main currency and means of payment for the purchase of goods and services and do not represent equity in
Anchor AG or endow the holder with voting rights, dividend rights, or any other rights against the token issuer.

Pillar #3: Decentralized Governing Body of
Validators
Validating the Integrity of the MMU’s Value and Anchor’s Price Stability
Validators
In Q1 2020, Anchor will commence a phased roll out of its governing body of up to 21
validators over the next 24 months. These Validators will be responsible for the decentralized
consensus of the value of the MMU, token price, token volume, and other processes.

www.theanchor.io

22

Validators will have access to economic input from more than 190 countries starting from
1994. Anchor’s data takes into account the last 25 years to project the global economic growth
trend factoring in dynamic economic scenarios to offer Token holders stability and
predictability. We can observe and compare data from each country over the last quarter
century, and will continue to accumulate data year after year, strengthening Anchor’s platform
and the MMU algorithm.
Validators will monitor official macroeconomic data feeds and offer regular price updates to
the blockchain. The Anchor system’s oracle will collate price data from Validators and update
the system. Validators offer suggestions to update the MMU based on official data from more
than 190 countries and further stabilized with FX indicators of a basket of currencies, as well
as premium sovereign bond yields from 10 of the world’s strongest economies.
All Validators will have access to view updates their counterparts have suggested, and upvote
or downvote the recommendation. When the majority of votes are fulfilled, the Anchor system
takes action accordingly. Validators go through each suggestion and based on the data upvote
or downvote. If the vote signals a majority win, the system actions the update maintaining
stability and transparency in the Anchor ecosystem.
Validators can upvote or downvote system’s suggestions regarding issuing new tokens when
the demand is high to ensure Anchor’s price does not rise above the value of the global GDP by
converting Dock Tokens to Anchor Tokens, and Anchor airdrops. This is the Expansion Phase
and is part of Anchor’s Three Pillars of Stabilizing Architecture.

Representatives From Up to 195 Countries
As part of our longer term strategy, over the next 24 months following our August launch, our
decentralized governance model will also include partnerships with representatives from up
to 195 countries that will act as Anchor’s Advisory Body. These representatives will facilitate
the development of Anchor as a global currency recognized by each country. They will also be
responsible for presenting quarterly, semi-annually, and annual reports to ensure all data is
current and increasingly granular in detail to advance the MMU’s algorithm in precision and
accuracy.

www.theanchor.io

23

IV. APPLICATIONS AND BENEFITS
●

Affordable and efficient global remittances.​ Anchor has the potential to change
millions of families’ lives in developing countries. Currently, migrant workers have little
options other than to send remittances through costly and slow centralized
institutions, such as Western Union. Anchor offers a solution to this problem, with fast
transactions and low fees, without the anxiety that a cryptocurrency like Bitcoin could
drop in value by 20% in just one day.

●

Inefficient and costly international payments for businesses and organizations. ​With
Anchor companies will be able to settle their international obligations quickly and
easily in a wealth transfer context that features dramatically mitigated FOREX and/or
inflationary risk. When it comes to Spot transactions, utilization of Anchor will enable
counterparties to swiftly move from their national unit of account through any of
approximately 20 intermediate currencies, and from there in to Anchor with
advantages of liquidity and transitivity of the underlying value maximizing flexibility.
When it comes to Term transactions, utilization of Anchor provides a dual-benefit.
Term counterparties are provided with a much greater range of choice in transferring
the value of the settlement into a currency of their choice. Anchor will also provide
greater safety for counterparties in the sense that it has built-in Capital Protection
capabilities should there be a sudden divergence in the exchange rate(s) or interest
rate(s) between the native jurisdiction(s) of the counterparties in question. Another
advantage of denominating Term transactions with Anchor is capital appreciation in
line with global GDP growth, should the counterparties choose to stay in Anchor over
extended periods of time.

●

A day-to-day currency.​ Anchor can be utilized like any other currency for mainstream
commerce with the added benefits of price-stability and preservation of purchasing
power.

●

Protection from local currency crashes.​ In the event of a fiat currency crashing in
value, local citizens could exchange their crashing currency for ANCTs quickly before
they lose even more of their savings, thus protecting them from further drops in value.
Take, for example, the hyperinflation that is currently occurring in Venezuela. On
average, prices of goods have been doubling every few weeks.​ ​The IMF predicts​ ​that
the inflation rate will increase by 10, 000, 000% by the end of 2019. Most Venezuelans
can no longer afford food because their savings have become increasingly worthless
and continue to drop in value by the day.

www.theanchor.io

24

●

Pensioners who are negatively impacted by inflation. ​Anchor aims to provide retirees
with an easily convertible store of value that not only maintains value, but is also
designed to appreciate in value over time in concert with global GDP growth. With
access to enter and exit a wide range of value expression vehicles, including fiat and
crypto-currencies will provide retirees with the maximum flexibility to meet daily
payment needs, and long-term savings objectives globally while preserving purchasing
power.

●

College savings plans vulnerable to erosion of value due to inflation. ​Anchor resolves
erosion by inflation over which savers have no control. Anchor is designed to deliver
capital appreciation through its peg to the MMU, which is indexed to global economic
growth. A savings plan that is denominated in Anchor could be easily converted into
and out of a wide range of fiat currencies to pay for education in a less expensive G20
country, which would have the net effect of enhancing the purchasing power of
Anchor.

●

Employer salary distribution.​ ​We believe that whatever you have earned in your life
should not lose value. ​An employer can set up a smart contract that automatically
transfers Anchors to their employees each month, for example. This is especially
beneficial for businesses that have employees all over the world, as it reduces the
exorbitant fees and days long process of transferring and exchanging fiat currency
from, say, a bank account in New York to a Chinese bank account. Using Anchors, this
process could take mere minutes and require just a small fraction of the usual
transaction fees.

●

Monthly mortgage, rent, or lease installations.​ A smart contract could be set up
between a bank/landlord and tenant to automatically transfer payment for
mortgage/rent on the first of each month, without worrying about high fluctuations in
price like you would with non-stable cryptocurrencies​.

● Automatic monthly expenses.​ Similarly, automatic payments of loans (ie. with
decentralized lending), monthly subscriptions such as gym memberships, or even
recurring donations to nonprofit organizations.

www.theanchor.io

25

V. PROJECT MILESTONES
Milestones Accomplished to Date
(as of October 2019)
●

●

●
●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●

July 2014, Anchor stablecoin and the MMU were conceived by serial
telecommunications and software entrepreneur, CEO Daniel Popa, with the writings of
the original whitepaper and business plan
March 2018, Popa partnered with Co-founder and COO, Cristian Bronescu, investing
more than $1 million USD into developing the project, and hired a team of PhD
economists and blockchain developers to work on the algorithm and technology. This
project is fully boot-strapped with no outside investments taken
September 2018, the official ​whitepaper​ was published and has since had several
updated editions
January 2019, Anchor commenced its global roadshow engaging with the crypto
community and generating brand awareness with events hosted on the sidelines of
major conferences in Miami, Istanbul, Hong Kong, Singapore, Los Angeles, London,
New York, and Zug
April 2019, the project launched​ its testnet​ allowing users to trial its interface and
trade pseudo Anchor tokens. Anchor also partnered with Ambisafe as its security
provider, and to further develop its blockchain infrastructure, as well as build the
Anchor Wallet
May 2019, Anchor launched its ​MMU Simulator​, enabling users to select a start-date
and an end-date to graph the MMU's value over the course of the selected time period
and observe the trendline in daily and weekly increments, comparing the MMU value
to other fiat currencies
June 2019, Anchor launched its bounty campaign and partnered with KYC Spider to
ensure all bounty airdrops and future token-users are compliant
June 2019, Anchor hosted a meetup with community members and a panel discussion
on Driving Mainstream Adoption mediated by Michael Nye for his Evolvement Podcast
July 2019, initiated external audit of Anchor system, re-branded, and redesigned its
website.
August 2019, Anchor launched a beta test of the Anchor Wallet
August 2019, Anchor had its token generation event (TGE) and its first token listing on
the Liquid exchange

www.theanchor.io

26

●

●

September 2019, Anchor celebrated its official launch in Singapore alongside the
Invest: Asia conference, and co-hosted a panel discussion on Crypto Beyond Trading
co-hosted with Michael Nye for his Evolvement Podcast
October 2019, developing financial model and obtaining evaluation appraisal in
preparation for traditional Series A fundraising round seeking up to 10% equity for $12
million

Forward-looking Developments and Objectives for
the Next 24 Months
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

November 2019, planning to list on second global exchange, IDEX
Q4 2019, commence building out partnerships with major global vendors and develop
use cases for Anchor as a payment token
Q4 2019, commence Series A fundraising round
Q1 2020, continue integrating and being listed on additional global exchanges with the
goal of one new exchange each quarter
Q1 2020, commence phased onboarding of Validators and implement governance
models
Q2 2020, commence phased roll-out of pairing with up to 19 fiat currencies, as well as
other stablecoins, such as Tether, to increase ease of liquidity
Q3 2020, develop and implement a safe investment strategy and fund, separate from
Anchor, that will purchase a range of stable and secure capital assets
Q4 2020, purchase sovereign debt and develop agreements with select nations with
the aim of Anchor being accepted and recognized as an official foreign currency
Q1 2021, surpass Tether in market cap and trading volume
Q4 2021, commence phased onboarding of Representatives from up to 195 countries
and further expand and decentralized governance model

VI. ANCHOR TOKEN ALLOCATION

www.theanchor.io

27

With our planned launch on exchanges in August 2019, the below table represents Anchor’s
initial token allocation and the amount of tokens we will reserve for upcoming project
developments over the next 24 months.
ENTITY

AMOUNT ALLOCATED
[DOCT]

PERCENTAGE [%]

202,531,646 DOCT

26.67%

21 Validators

79,746,835 DOCT

10.50%

195 Countries

246,835,443 DOCT

32.50%

Treasury

26,582,278 DOCT

3.50%

Anchor AG

37,974,684 DOCT

5.00%

Operations & Management

37,974,684 DOCT

5.00%

Sales & Marketing

37,974,684 DOCT

5.00%

Research & Development

7,594,937 DOCT

1.00%

General & Administrative

7,594,937 DOCT

1.00%

Legal & Regulatory

6,303,797 DOCT

0.83%

Contingency

37,974,684 DOCT

5.00%

Partnerships

11,392,405 DOCT

1.50%

Consultants

11,392,405 DOCT

1.50%

Advisors

7,594,937 DOCT

1.00%

For Sales & Trading

www.theanchor.io

28

VII. TEAM
Leadership Team
Founder and CEO, Daniel Popa
Daniel Popa is a serial entrepreneur with over 20 years of experience successfully launching numerous
telecommunications and software companies, including NECC Telecom, Pulse Telecom, ECS Soft, CCI,
TimeWalk, and others. Companies founded by Daniel have generated over $1 billion in revenue over
the past 20 years and currently operate in 5 different countries - USA, Canada, Australia, Romania, and
Ukraine. NECC Telecom employed more than 600 people and several thousand contractors around the
world and earned revenues in excess of $54 million annually. Daniel and his team of PhD-level
academics have been developing the algorithm behind the MMU since 2017.

Co-founder and Chief Operations Officer, Cristian Bronescu
Cristian is a full stack developer with over a decade of programmer experience and technical
competencies in a wide range of programming languages. He is also a successful entrepreneur,
co-founding 3 companies in the past 5 years, including a virtual reality company called vrplay and a
software auditing company called BugsAudit. Cristian also brings strong project management skills
acquired from his role at American telecommunications firm SRVR.

Chief Product Officer, Tijana Damjanovic Gertner
Tijana brings her expertise in company operations and background in content creation to lead Anchor’s
product development, design, and marketing as CPO. Given Tijana’s organizational skill set, she is also
responsible for project management and coordinating efforts between Anchor’s various
sub-departments to ensure Anchor’s vision is expressed cohesively. Tijana has worn many hats at
Anchor as its previous Chief Marketing Officer and bridges marketing and product development needs
leading the project’s ongoing innovation.

Chief Marketing Officer, Miloš Milosavljević
Miloš Milosavljević is a seasoned communications professional, focused on producing and delivering
end-to-end digital marketing strategies for a wide range of industries. On the Anchor project, he is the
lead marketing strategist.

Chief Communications Officer, Olya Moskalenko
Olya brings over a decade of experience in communications and business development spanning the
globe working with multinational corporations, iconic brands, and innovative startups. As CCO of
Anchor, Olya develops strategy and oversees the implementation of all media activities, public relations,
communications, strategic partnerships, events, and business development. Prior to Anchor, Olya was
the Director of Strategic Partnerships at Wachsman leading global business development and public
relations. Before joining Wachsman, Olya worked across a diverse portfolio of industries and clients at

www.theanchor.io

29

Rubenstein PR, Edelman, Porter Novelli, as well as led the PR and Events at Virgin Megastore in Dubai,
the largest entertainment and multimedia brand in the Middle East region.

Monetary Measurement Unit (MMU) Team
Lead MMU Developer and Macroeconomist, Zoran Grubišić, PhD
Zoran is a university professor and internationally recognized expert in open macroeconomics,
international finance and financial valuation, with many scientific research papers presented at
prestigious conferences. He has considerable experience with the workings of financial markets,
including valuations of all kinds of financial assets. Zoran’s attention is particularly focused on the
methodology of finding the intrinsic value of an asset and the adequate efficiency of a market. Zoran’s
drive to attain market stability is reflected in his practice of discovering the necessary instruments for
minimizing variability, a basic tenet of market uncertainty.

Quantitative Finance Expert, Aleksandar Manić
Aleksandar has a background in quantitative finance and his experience with project valuation has to a
great extent prepared him for the wonders of Cryptoland. Aleksandar is highly enthusiastic and
passionate about the Anchor mission and vision, and has undertaken a research quest to discover the
proper balance between micro- and macroeconomics, anticipating the market's majestic demands, and
applying his findings to the success of the Anchor System.

Blockchain, Software, and IT Team
Token Economy Creator, Ivan Marković, PhD
Ivan is Anchor’s tokenomics creator providing consultation throughout the project. Ivan created ANCT
as a unit of value that interacts with the underlying business model (and DOCT as the system's utility
token), while being a part of the system's crypto-economics that has been designed to facilitate the
distribution and sharing of benefits to the system users.

VP of Engineering, Artem Labunko
As Chief Technology Officer and VP of Engineering Artem has been involved in the development of
coherent platforms backed up with up-to-date technology stack to deliver products for a variety of
channels. His main field of expertise is business intuitive and cost-efficiency oriented solution delivery.
His core competencies are Ethereum based Blockchain and custom solutions for it, full SDLC
management and Technical Architecture.

Ethereum Architect, Oleksii Matiiasevych
Oleksii is known in the blockchain industry for saving millions of dollars during the Parity Wallet hack
and for identifying vulnerabilities in 12+ top-rated cryptocurrency exchanges. He has worked with
several blockchain projects including Tether, Bitso, Propy and TaaS. Having developed hundreds of
smart-contracts and Ethereum applications, Oleksii is currently the lead Solidity architect at Ambisafe.

www.theanchor.io

30

Project Manager, Anna Medkova
With a degree in psychology, Anna is passionate about people management and client communication.
She has successfully planned, coordinated and delivered projects for more than 4 years in both product
and outsource companies and is currently managing blockchain projects.

Solutions Architect and Full-stack Developer, Michael Khimich
Michael has a specialist’s degree in Political Science. He is a full-stack engineer with 4 years of
experience writing front- and back-end applications with Python, JavaScript, Black Magic and other
technologies.

Frontend Engineer, Yurii Kabai
Yurii has a master’s degree in Computer Science. He is a full-stack engineer with 6 years of experience
writing front- and back-end applications with React, Angular, Node and other technologies. Yurii has
solid background in projects on wealth management, economic models, blockchain and digital
advertising.

Frontend Engineer, Olia Nistratova
Olia has more than three years of commercial experience, providing front-end development, producing
high-quality responsive websites, exceptional user experience and building single page applications with
React. Olia has solid background in projects on education management, e-commerce and blockchain.

Python Developer, Anton Simernya
Anton has nine years of experience in Software Development and 4 years in building, deploying and
maintaining blockchain-based applications. He is proficient in backend development architecture and
cloud infrastructure solutions.

Business Development and Sales Team
Vice President of Government Relations, Andrew Sarega
Andrew Sarega is currently an acting Councilman for the city of La Mirada in California and has over six
years of experience serving on the boards of various municipal and state-level governmental
organizations. Prior to becoming an elected official in the United States, Andrew ran for United States
Congress during the 2018 midterm elections.

Sales Manager, Brana Rakic
Brana enjoys connecting with people and finding solutions for their pain points. She has helped several
successful startups to grow rapidly and gain a devoted and satisfied audience. She has joined the crypto
space to help Anchor do the same.

Sales Manager, Cosmin Gheara

www.theanchor.io

31

Self-starter with an entrepreneurial mindset, able to build relationships quickly, with solid background
of sales, business management and channel development, experienced in leading technical and sales
teams.

Irinel Marcu, Market Research Analyst
Experienced leader with a demonstrated history of working and interacting with people. Skilled in
Research, Customer Service, Management, and Strategic planning. Strong business development
professional with a Bachelor and Masters of Science in Criminal Justice Administration from University
of Phoenix.

Marketing Team
Content and Community Developer Lana Dobric
Lana is a digital marketing enthusiast, focused on content creation, social media marketing, and
community management. She loves bringing ideas into reality, especially those that make a difference.

Content and Community Developer Dragan Sakotic
Dragan is a passionate content developer who fell in love with blockchain technology and became a
crypto enthusiast, with a great interest in trading.

Legal Team
Partner at Greenspoon Marder LLP, Katya Fisher, Esq.
Katya Fisher is a Partner and Practice Group Leader of the Blockchain, Digital Assets, and Technology
Transactions practice group at Greenspoon Marder LLP. Ms. Fisher represents clients in a broad range
of corporate matters and technology transactions and advises clients with respect to legal matters in
the blockchain and digital assets industries.

Of Counsel at Greenspoon Marder LLP, Rose Schindler, Esq.
Ms. Schindler focuses on securities compliance and regulatory defense. She has experience with state of
Florida, FINRA, CFTC and CFP investigations, and a heavy regulatory background, including eight years
with SEC and 14 years with Finra. Ms. Schindler spent three years in house with a broker/dealer. She is
experienced with regulations for investment advisers and broker/dealers.

Partner Network
●
●
●
●

Ambisafe, Global Capital Markets and Blockchain Infrastructure Provider
KYC Spider AG, Digital Identity Verification
Liquid, global cryptocurrency exchange based in Japan
IDEX, world’s leading decentralized cryptocurrency exchange

www.theanchor.io

32

●
●

Melrose PR, Blockchain and Cryptocurrency Public Relations
CW8, Strategic Communications and Finance Advisors

www.theanchor.io

33

VIII. CONCLUSION
In Summary
Whether you are an individual, business, organization, or government, Anchor offers token
users long-term price stability, preservation of purchasing power, and protection against
inflation by leveraging the sustainable growth trend of the global economy.
●
●
●

●
●

●

Anchor's tokenomics ensures that the Anchor Token (ANCT) is pegged to the stable
and predictable growth trend of the global economy via the MMU.
A reflection of global economic growth, the MMU is expected to appreciate over time,
as opposed to fiat currencies, which are prone to inflation.
In the event of a global recession, or other highly volatile economic scenario, Anchor’s
tokenomics infrastructure and stabilizing mechanisms are designed to remain stable,
consistent, and predictable.
Anchor’s two-token model and its stabilizing mechanisms, including the six pillar safety
net, ensure the value of ANCT remains pegged to the MMU.
During both Expansion and Contraction Phases, whether demand goes up or down,
token holders will be highly incentivized to participate and contribute to the Anchor
ecosystem’s overall growth and development.
Anchor is scalable allowing for a steady expansion of token supply with the growth of
the Anchor economy through trading and partnerships, without destabilizing the
ecosystem, the peg, or the value of the token.

How To Get Involved
Follow Anchor and join our community to keep up to date with our latest news.

www.theanchor.io

34

Risk Factors and Disclaimers
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS AND DISCLAIMERS CAREFULLY BEFORE PARTICIPATING IN THE
ANCHOR ECONOMY.
This Whitepaper is issued by Anchor AG, a Swiss corporation located at Bahnhofstrasse 21, 6300 Zug, Switzerland (the
“Company”). All information and material contained in this document has been provided for informational purposes only and is
subject to change, including addition, removal, amendment or update of information and/or material by the Company at any time
without notice.
The Company’s Board of Directors has taken all reasonable care to ensure that, as of the publishing date, the information
contained in this Whitepaper is correct and authentic, complete and exhaustive to its knowledge, and that there are no other facts
which, if omitted, would make any part of this Whitepaper ambiguous or misleading.
However, the Company’s Board of Directors makes no representation on the accuracy or completeness of the information. There
is also no assurance that the information contained therein will be continuously accurate after the date of first publishing and
consequently after possible modifications.
The version of this Whitepaper is written in English and is the primary official source of information about the ANCHOR project.
The information contained in this Whitepaper may eventually be translated into other languages or used in communication
(written or verbal) in other languages.
During the process of translation, some of the information may get corrupted, lost, or misinterpreted. The accuracy of translation
cannot be guaranteed and the accuracy of representation in communication cannot be guaranteed likewise.
If there are any contradictions, inconsistencies or conflicts between communications or translated versions and this version of the
Whitepaper (written in English) the original document and the information in it will prevail.
This Whitepaper is not a prospectus within the sense of Art. 1156 and Art. 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations (CO) or the
European Prospectus Regulation or any other applicable laws and regulations. This Whitepaper has not been and will not be
reviewed, verified or approved by any regulatory or supervisory authority.
The legal status of digital tokens is still under development in most jurisdictions. New laws and regulations may change the way
that digital tokens are classified. Therefore, the Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to implement some features of the
Anchor platform as such, and it expressly reserves the right to amend the terms of the token sale and/or conversion accordingly.
The Dock Tokens are utility tokens designed to stabilize the Anchor system. Dock Tokens provide digital access to the Anchor
platform and can be converted under specific terms into Anchor Tokens. The Company does not recommend buying Dock Tokens
for speculative investment purposes. The Dock Tokens give neither equity in any company, nor voting rights, nor dividend rights.
The sale of Dock Tokens will be final and non-refundable. The Dock Tokens will be issued through an open-source IT blockchain
protocol called ERC20. Anchor AG has no control over the operational network of ERC20. Anchor AG may not be liable in any way
for any feature that might affect the token ownership.
The Anchor Tokens are stable coins to be used as a means of payment for the purchase of goods and services. With the stability
that the Anchor Tokens provide, being pegged to the Monetary Measurement Unit, the Anchor Tokens are unsuitable for
speculation. No ICO or STO has or will be carried out for the Anchor Tokens.
The Anchor Tokens give neither equity in any company, nor voting rights, nor dividend or any other rights against the issuer.
Consequently, for the avoidance of doubt, Anchor Tokens also do not give a claim to any stable capital assets that the Company
may acquire under the Investment or Reinvestment Mechanism of the Anchor system. The Anchor Tokens will mainly be issued
through an open-source IT protocol called ERC20. Anchor AG has no control over the operational networks of ERC20. Anchor AG
may not be liable in any way for any feature that might affect the token ownership.

www.theanchor.io

35

All statements regarding the Company’s financial position, business strategies, plans, and prospects, as well as the prospects of the
industry in which the Company operates, are forward-looking statements. Neither Anchor AG, its founders, team members, or any
third party involved in the Company’s project nor any other person represents, warrants and undertakes that the actual future
results, performance or achievements of the Company will be as discussed in these forward-looking statements.
The Whitepaper includes market and industry information and forecasts which the Company has obtained from internal and
external surveys, reports and studies, as well as market research, publicly available information and industry publications. These
surveys, reports, studies, market research, publicly available information and publications state that the information that they
contain has come from sources believed to be reliable, but there can be no assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of such
information.
No information in this Whitepaper should be considered as business, legal, financial or tax advice regarding the Anchor project.
Prospective participants should consult their own business, legal, financial, tax or other professional advisors regarding the
Anchor project and the legal requirements and consequences of purchasing, holding and disposing of Dock Tokens and/or Anchor
Tokens and any applicable exchange control regulations and taxes in the countries of their respective citizenship, residence
and/or domicile.
The tax characterization of the tokens is uncertain, and each buyer needs to consult with and must rely on the advice of his own
professional tax advisors with respect to the tax treatment of an acquisition of the tokens.
The Anchor system is a technology under development and any changes that can occur during the development of the technology
can have a negative impact on the Anchor system for at least 24 months. The purchaser of the tokens undertakes that s/he has
significant experience in cryptocurrencies and blockchain systems as well as related services and that s/he fully understands all
risks associated with the purchase as well as the mechanism related to the use of cryptocurrency (incl. storage).
The information contained in this Whitepaper, and any opinion expressed therein, does not constitute an offer, or an invitation to
make an offer, to buy or sell securities or financial instruments or derivatives relating thereto. The information is not intended to
provide personal recommendation or investment advice, and it does not consider the specific investment objectives, financial
situation, or particular needs of any specific person.
The purchase of the Dock Tokens will be subject to terms and conditions which are not set out in this Whitepaper but are defined
in a separate agreement. Each potential buyer will have to undergo a due diligence review performed by a third-party provider in
accordance with the Swiss Anti-Money Laundering Act, as well as other applicable rules and regulations. Only eligible buyers will
be permitted to acquire tokens. Further restrictions may be applied to the token sale and are expressly reserved by the Company.
To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws, regulations, and rules, the Company, its founders, team members and
any third party involved in the Anchor project shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential, or other losses
of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including, but not limited to loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of use or data),
arising out of or in connection with any acceptance of or reliance on this Whitepaper.
The distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper or any part thereof may be prohibited or restricted by the laws, regulatory
requirements and rules of certain jurisdictions. Anchor is currently not available to US persons. It is the responsibility of the
prospective participant to perform the necessary due diligence regarding possible restrictions in his jurisdiction, and it is also the
sole responsibility of the prospective participant to inform himself about, and to observe and respect any and all laws and
regulations that may be applicable to him from time to time.
In any countries or regions, where the content of this Whitepaper is prohibited or restricted, it should not be reproduced or
distributed in whole or in part. Further, if a potential participant recognizes that s/he is from a country or region where this
Whitepaper is prohibited and still chooses to make a token purchase, then this participant is deemed to acknowledge the risks
associated with such action and Anchor AG shall not be liable or have any legal responsibilities with respect to such action by the
participant.
This Whitepaper shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Switzerland, without regard to conflict of law
rules or principles (whether of Switzerland or any other jurisdiction) which would cause the application of the laws of any other

www.theanchor.io

36

jurisdiction. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of, or relating to, this Whitepaper shall be finally resolved by arbitration
in accordance with the Swiss Rules of International Arbitration of the Swiss Chambers’ Arbitration Institute in force on the date
on which the Notice of Arbitration is submitted in accordance with these Rules. The arbitration penal shall consist of one
arbitrator. The seat of the arbitration shall be Zug, Switzerland. The arbitral proceedings shall be conducted in English.

www.theanchor.io

37

www.theanchor.io

38

