Network for next generation of B2C applications
Development Plan

Richard Wang
CTO
APEX Network
Chinapex

Dear APEX Community,
What we have here is a development plan overview for the APEX Network, its blockchain technology, and its ecosystem. At APEX we have a unique approach of building out our blockchain project - we believe that three fundamental aspects must go
together to ensure long-term success of the project 1) the technology itself and the
extent in which it can solve the problem it was set out to tackle 2) speed to market and
the real-world adoption rate of the technology (and the levers you set and create that
act as catalysts) and 3) the actual value delivered in a timely manner (in other words
long-term sustainability of the project).
Note that this paper is not a whitepaper, in that it is not meant to focus on outlining
to the audience the technical workings of the blockchain itself, but rather is intended
to demonstrate a development plan with long-term use case and viability for growth.
At APEX Network and Chinapex, we also approach technology in an agile manner in
which technical design is improved with fast iterations on an ad-hoc basis.

Best Regards,
Richard Wang

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Background
i. The Data Problem
ii. The B2C Interaction Problem
iii. Blockchain as a Solution
iv. Scale of the Problem
v. Key Considerations
2. APEX Network
i. Overview and Vision
ii. Platform Framework
iii. Sidechains
iv. Consensus Mechanism
v. Supernodes
vi. Smart Contracts
vii. Data Connectors
viii. Consumer Data and Transactions
ix. Cross-network DEX
3. Application Layer
i. CPX Wallet
ii. Use Case Examples
- B2C Data Transactions
- B2B Data Exchange
- Rewards Exchange/Alliance
- Interactive Messaging
- Gamification
- Unified Customer Experience
- Artificial Intelligence
6. About APEX Network
i. Core Team
ii. Company
iii. Advisors
iv. Partners
v. Roadmap

Background
Abstract
The business to consumer (B2C) market is one of the largest global mega-verticals, with B2C ecommerce (excluding brick-and-mortar) alone expected to reach a size of $3,940 billion by 2022. Other than core business
competencies, differentiation strategies, supply chain, product offerings, and competitive strategy, a large part
of the success of a B2C enterprise has to do with managing the customer lifecycle - this includes marketing,
branding, CRM, customer experience optimization, and maximizing customer lifetime value (CLV).
The next generation of best practice B2C lifecycle management hinges upon 2 main areas: data and B2C
interactions. Despite the proliferation of big data, marketing technology, marketing channels, and artificial
intelligence, customer data and customer engagement remain ridden with problems. In the aspect of consumer data, problems have arisen from massive centralization and data hoarding by 3rd parties. And for B2C
engagement, the centralization of marketing and communication channels, as well as ineffective customer
loyalty and CRM strategies and tools.
These are in a sense technology problems, but they are also problems relating to the structure and nature
of the B2C interactions. Centralization of data and interactions has created efficiencies, breakthroughs, and
network effects, but up to a certain extent they start creating bottlenecks and interactions and relationships
become one sided.
The goal of APEX Network is through proprietary blockchain technology, foster deeper 1-to-1 B2C relationships, by giving enterprises newer optimized ways to approach marketing, CRM, loyalty, and customer
experience, and at the same time maximizing value obtained by the consumer in all B2C interactions.

The Data Problem
The best way to describe the current data ecosystem is that it’s broken for both consumers and
enterprises. For the consumer, data and the value generated via its use is typically completely out of
control of the consumer, who by principle should hold data a sovereign asset and retain data ownership. For the B2C enterprise, there’s a multitude of issues surrounding data transparency, quality,
cost effectiveness, and security, hindering the maximum potential of data-driven applications.

Centralized Data Ownership Model and Data Hoarding
With the advent of distributed computing and big data, a centralized data aggregation model has created a
number of efficiencies and breakthroughs for consumer data analytics, digital marketing, and in general Web
2.0. Business models that benefited the most from centralized data aggregation included but is not limited to
consumer data companies, internet companies, and media platforms - these business models typically focused
on “network effects” , “monetization opportunities”, and “economies of scale” created by amount and depth
of consumer data points with a “the more the merrier” approach. The centralized data ownership model has
proven to be very lucrative for such companies and their consituents, and are behind the core business model
that drives their profitability. Prime examples include Facebook, Google, Baidu (China) , Alibaba (China), Tencent (China) and Naver (Korea).
This problem with this model is that it goes against the grain of the ideal model of data ownership, in which
contributors obtain a fair share of value that’s earned from the contribution, incentivizing more in-depth participation instead of simply a one-sided model. A decentralized protocol that models fair data ownership model
between platforms, consumers, and enterprises is more ideal and healthy going forward.

Data Security and Privacy
Data security and protection of privacy is one of the largest issues in the consumer data space, particularly
because of the number of catastrophic incidents of consumer data breach or privacy violation of data stored
with internet and consumer data companies. Some incidents are examples of the security flaws of centralized
data storage, such as the 2017 Equifax data breach incident, which leaked close to 150 million sensitive identity
data, and multiple Yahoo data comprimises starting in 2013. Other major incidents can’t be classified as traditional data breaches, but flaws in design due to centralized data business models. The Facebook user data
privacy violation that occured in 2014 as a result of research firm Cambridge Analytica harvesting the behavioral and psychographic data of 50 million users for political use was due to a product design loophole that
exposed the data rather than data storage security breach.
Data security and privacy issues don’t just affect consumers, they also affect enterprises that are looking to optimize their customer experience and lifecycle. In terms of the general consumer data landscape, if consumers
do not trust enterprises to keep their data safe, they are less likely to share much information and engage in
various interactions. With the influx of applications and different types of devices, including IoT, close to 70% of
consumers worry about security and privacy risks. In lack of response from brands and enterprises and inability to implement measures (and lack thereof of an effective solution) have over 30% of surveyed consumers
believing that brands simply do not put consumer data privacy as a priority.

Consent and Legal Compliance
Consumer consent and legal compliance is becoming a significant factor that is shaping how the consumer
data landscape is moving forward. One prime example is GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), which is
set out to officially roll out May 25, 2018, tightens data protection rules for all companies in Europe and outside
of Europe for any data collected relating to and of EU residents. GDPR sets strict rules and practices for data
collection, consent, and processing for the enterprise and gives consumers more control and rights in data
access and erasure. The enforcement of consumer data rights and consent is not just a EU phenomenon but
can be seen in a wave of recent regulations in Asia as well, including China’s new Cybersecurity Law that was
already effective since June 2017 and Japan’s Personal Information Protection Law (effective mid-2017).
One primary theme within this wave of regulations is consent and control the consumer has over her own data,
and secondary point emphasized mostly revolves around stricter processes surrounding the storage and processing of consumer data. The consent aspect has been for the most part in the past one-sided, with consent
protocol not implemented or implemented in a implicit manner. Decentralized technology can play a significant
role of how consent and layered permissioning protocols can become more fair, transparent, and automated.

Data Transparency, Accuracy, and Quality
For enterprises who actually acquire consumer data using compliant means - the quality, accuracy, recency,
and transparency of data source are the key factors to consider when trying to evaluate overall value. There
are two aspects that affect overall data quality and value - first is internal processes in collecting and managing
customer data, second is data acquired from 3rd party providers and sources. On the internal side, it’s purely
a best practice and technology problem - the process can be completely managed and the data is entirely
transparent from the start.
On the external and 3rd party side. data is typically acquired by the enterprise in structured and usable form.
The original data source, validity, recency, method of cleansing, and method of analytics is typically a “blackbox” to the enterprise user. To give some perspective of 3rd party data acquisition in practice - APEX Network/
Chinapex has studied our enterprise customers’ results with 3rd party data across over 200 companies. 3rd
party providers included Unionpay and data partners of China Mobile and China Unicom (largest telecommunication companies in China), and were connected into our clients’ data platforms via APIs using Chinapex’s flagship marketing data product NEXUS. The results of our study were rather surprising - 23% of the data points
had the consumer gender wrong, and 27% of the data had a wrong device type/brand identified. We estimated the average data recency to be 4 to 6 months. We have come to a conclusion that a centralized black-box
model of data transaction via aggregated sources is difficult to give enterprise users the reassurance that it
needs.

Cost Effectiveness, Cost Control
Being able to having a say in determining the fair cost for any particular datum should be of importance to both
enterprises/brands as well as consumers. The centralized data aggregation business model of internet, media,
and consumer data companies do not allow that to happen, which by design goes against a fair data ownership model of consumers themselves setting the cost (and gets compensated as a result), or an enterprise
setting the cost, in the case of B2B transactions without a centralized platform or middleman.
As we see as a general theme here - centralized models in data ownership, storage, and exchange leave
many difficult problems surrounding trust, privacy, security, rights, quality, and cost-effectiveness on the table
unsolved, hindering the development of next generation of data-driven B2C interactions.

The B2C Interaction Problem
The data problem is only one side of the picture - on the other end there’s the interaction and engagement layer that makes up the core of the B2C customer lifecycle. When we talk about engagement, it consists of components such as channel of engagement, the customer experience, and level of engagement. Currently we have various channels of engagement being ineffective, customer
experience being subpar, and level of continuous engagement lacking. Brands try new B2C interaction methods and channels, and new loyalty programs, but they’re only having marginal effects.

DATA

ENGAGEMENT

Audience Data

Behavioral Data

Awareness

Engagement

Direct + 3rd Party

Direct + 3rd Party

Purchase Data

Conversion
Direct Channel

CRM Data

Retention &
Loyalty
Direct Channel

CRM + Product Usage

Maximize Lifetime
Value (CLV)
Direct Channel

Data-driven insight combined with in-depth engagement is the future of
optimized B2C lifecycle, from awareness to conversion to maximum customer lifetime value (CLV).

Significant Value Expended by Middlemen Networks
In this particular context, we define “middlemen networks” as any channel or layer that facilitates communication, interaction, or exposure between enterprises and consumers. Some examples arising from the scope of
“middlemen networks” may include media, ad networks, affiliate networks, advertising platforms, push notification channels, 3rd party applications, etc. Some of these channels have one “layer” which delivers the method
of engagement directly to the consumer, while others have multiple layers nested within each other that take a
cut of the value (typically in the form of marketing budget) - examples include ad networks, advertising platforms, and affiliate networks.
With the advent of programmatic marketing, using audience targeting via acquired 3rd party data has somewhat increased efficacy of the advertising, but questionable consumer data quality, media inventory quality,
and suboptimal cost effectiveness has not solved the core problem. There is minimal value returned to the
consumer for participating or partial parcipation in the engagements, hence no incentive for being involved in
a more in-depth manner. Looking at a couple numbers may be enough to put things in perspective:
- 56% of digital advertising are not seen (noted viewed) [Google/Double Click Study]
- $6.3 Billion of digital ads will be wasted on fraudulent activity or bots [ADWEEK]
- 23% of premium video ads is fraudulent bot activity [IAB]
- 58% of consumers do not trust online banner advertising. [Nielsen]
- 52% of consumers find push notifications annoying [Localytics]

Ineffective Loyalty and CRM Programs
Brands and enterprises from various B2C sectors including travel, retail, and financial services have attempted
to create their own loyalty programs of various formats, the most typical case using a point system in different
tiers of rewards can be redeemed. The results have been for the most part mediocre, and the process at times
cumbersome and not helping the customer experience in general. Reasons include 1) mainly purchase-related
behavior has been linked to rewards, not adding much value of the loyalty point system to deeper engagement levels 2) redemption processes are cumbersome and options are limited mostly within the vendor’s
offering - brand partnerships require manual commercial negotiation process and cross-brand redemptions
are complex due to unstandardized integrations.
Brands in general have had a hard time creating a loyalty solution that consistently increases engagement,
seamlessly fits into the customer journey, and enhances the customer experience on a continuous basis. A
ideal solution would need to provide consumers more tangible immediate value as well as optionality, and fit in
more comprehensively in the customer lifecycle and the customer experience rather being focused on purchase behaviors.
In terms of CRM programs that focus on promotions and offers via notification and messaging channels, 55%
of them have not proven to deliver results. Studies have shown one key factor is that most CRM programs
have been more of a one-sided approach where the consumer views it as a solicitation rather than value-adding.

Ineffective Solutions for Customer Lifecycle Management
Customer lifecycle management is often a tricky task even for large established enterprises with a strong IT
and data strategy. An optimal customer lifecycle management approach for the enterprise would enable the
brand to provide their customer a seamless and engaging customer journey across all the different touchpoints in the lifecycle, including online, at brick and mortar retail locations, and in mobile applications. To
achieve this, 1) comprehensive behavioral data needs to be collected at various touchpoints 2) cross-channel,
cross-touchpoint, and cross-source data need to be stitched together in unified profiles 3) suitable engagement methods that fit in seamlessly with the entire customer experience.
Chinapex (Parent company of APEX Network) happens to be in the business of data-driven customer lifecycle and journey management. Chinapex’s data management product, NEXUS has solved many of our 300+
enterprise customers’ problems surrounding integrating data across various touchpoints and data sources into
unified profiles - but still two key problems remain 1) data collected via the various touchpoints often are often
not deep enough to produce meaningful actionable insights 2) ways to engage the customer are often still
limited to direct marketing or push notifications, and produce a noticeable difference but do not change the
nature of the engagement.

Summary
As we see from our assessment above, optimizing both the data plus interaction layer is the key to improving
B2C relationships and the customer lifecycle, but we have seem to come to bottlenecks on both ends with
current technologies that do improve B2C engagements but not changing the nature of the B2C engagement
model. We see where the problem lies is in the structure of the value network for both the data and interactions aspects. In the case of data - currently it’s a one-way street in which data aggregators receive the majority of the value followed by enterprises and then for consumers the least. The structure of this data value chain
creates problems surrounding privacy, compliance, security, cost-effectiveness, transparency, and quality. On
the interaction side a similar problem appears where either most of the value is expended via middlemen
networks or the consumer receives no value, or negative value in the form of solicitation. A paradigm shift is
needed in which value is balanced and driven by trust and balanced benefit-sharing.

Blockchain as a Solution
So far platform-level blockchain technology (excluding tokenized applications) has mostly been adopted for the use case of cryptocurrency or the broader fintech (financial technology) space. Since
Bitcoin, there has been a proliferation of more general public blockchains which dApps (decentralized applications) can be built on such as Ethereum, EOS, and NEO, as well as more use-case specific chains (Ripple, Filecoin, ICON, Ontology). In this paper we will show that marketing, CRM, and
B2C lifecycle is a unique be significant use-case in which adoption of blockchain technology has a
clear advantage.

Based on our previous analysis, below are key points of transformation that need to
occur surrounding the B2C engagement and lifecycle in order to optimize B2C interactions to the next level:

Shifting the value distribution
across B2C data and interactions towards a fairer and more
balanced system.

Increased trust and
transparency of the system.

Value conservation, elimination of middlemen, and
replace with decentralized
protocols

Enhanced privacy, control, and
security.

Optimized engagement levels and incentive for engagement.

Connected value instead of
silos, convenient exchange of
value and assets.

These aspects of B2C engagement and interactions can all be optimized with blockchain technology. Any
problem concerning fair value distribution or value conservation (elimination or reduction of middlemen networks’ value expenditure) can all be addressed through smart contract technology combined with an immutable distributed ledger. For giving more control back to the consumer over her data as well as enhanced
privacy and security, features such as encryption of data in-transit as well as using a encrypted self-sovereign
identity, combined with consent-driven data transaction protocol using smart contracts can change the existing
centralized consumer data aggregation and ownership model.
On improving the level of engagement, incentivizing for engagement, as well as providing more tangible
value for engagements, tokenizing value within a particular dApp or brand network, and then being able to
exchange the asset easily for other assets (ie. from other brands) on the larger network is disruptive new
possibility that blockchain brings to the table. This traditional CRM and loyalty programs haven’t been able to
achieve.
With an enterprise-ready blockchain platform that is crafted for building data-driven and engagement-rich
B2C applications, brands and enterprises will be able to build custom dApps around the entire customer
lifecycle aimed at increasing trust, protecting privacy, enforcing consent, increasing the depth of interactions, building loyalty, and in general creating stronger 1-to-1 relationships.

Scale of the Problem
Using blockchain technology, our goal is to solve and optimize the B2C engagement problems as
seen outlined earlier in this paper - which is not a simple single problem but rather a set of problems
along the B2C customer lifecycle value chain applicable to almost all B2C subverticals. The scope
of the problem includes marketing, branding, CRM, loyalty, customer experience, as well as using
data and insights to improve product design and other core competencies. Note that it is not the
goal to replace existing centralized systems, tools, and middlemen networks, but having decentralized technology to disrupt parts of the value chain when it makes sense to.

$ 82 Billion

$ 156 Billion
Size of consumer and marketing data sector
in the US alone (DMA).

Projected size of the CRM market by 2025
(Grand View Research)

$ 32.4 Billion
Estimated size of 2018 marketing technology
sector. (IDC)

$ 281 Billion
Estimated size of the global digital marketing
market in the year of 2018 (Statistica).

Retail
In a survey of leading retailers, 87% of
participants believe that blockchain technology will be key to the future of the retail
industry, including in areas of networked
loyalty programs and customer data management. (Cognizant)
Travel
High quality and real-time customer
data is playing an increasingly important role in travel industry marketing.
Blockchain technology is already
used in pilot programs to improve
marketing and sales in the travel
industry. (Skift Research)
Luxury & Lifestyle
Blockchain will be playing a
transformative role in optimizing
customer experience, trust, and
marketing in the luxury industry.
(FTAccelerator)

$ 17 Billion
Customer experience management (CEM)
market size by 2022

Automotive
The auto sector is going through a transformation of shifting from product-centric
to customer centric. This would require
stepping up to the next level in terms of
customer lifecycle management and data-driven personalization. (Ernst & Young)

Transformations
Across Various
B2C Verticals

Financial Services
Blockchain will be important in
the financial services and banking
sectors to help transform customer
experience, one key example of
using blockchain to help create
a unified view of the customer.
(UNISYS)
Education
Education is a sector in which CRM plays
a critical role to the customer lifecycle.
Blockchain technology has large potential to transform customer data management in this sector. (EdTech)

Key Considerations
Given our understanding of the problem, the market, B2C customer lifecycle, and the target user
groups, the next question to ask is what would be some key considerations in designing an ideal
blockchain solution for the particular use case and purpose. These key considerations need to be
looked at at a holistic perspective - from both technical and commercial aspects, as our priority is
speed-to-value and adoption and technology is just a means in itself without use-case adoption.

Speed-to-Value
An ideal solution has an ecosystem in which network effects can be stacked up over time - one in which has
a healthy, growing, and collaborative ecosystem of enterprises/brands, consumer users, application partners,
and enterprise technology partners. For this to happen, it’s key for the process in which the enterprise experiments and adopts the technology must be timely. This factors into various aspects of the blockchain project,
including built-in enterprise features, ease of development, SDK/API robustness, and level of support for POC
(proof of concept) stages.

Connectivity
Many applications and smart contracts on the blockchain need to be connected to the real world and integrated with existing systems in order to maximize real value - real-time data streams from external centralized or
decentralized applications and data sources is especially important for enterprise-related applications. Currently on most public chains such as Ethereum, connectivity to external data sources are realized through oracles, but they are built as external add-ons rather than native modules usable easily directly through SDKs. For
enterprise to build and deploy real-time connected applications in an agile manner, built-in data connectors
and data middleware capabilities can significantly expedite the process. This is also important in the other way
around - easy implementation of triggers that send signals from the blockchain and dApps to outside application and platforms.

Scalability
Performance at scale is definitely an important consideration for enterprise applications, especially for networks with over thousands of members. While most public blockchains that are available do not have a high
transactions per second (TPS) metric (with most below 100), performance limitations are increasingly criticial
to enterprise adoption moving forward. Consistent performance at scale requires architecture that separates
and localizes workstreams, uses optimized consensus protocols, and uses higher performance technology for
code execution. For a blockchain to be truly scalable, it also needs to be redundant in design to prepare for
major outages.

dApp Ecosystem
Depending on the primary application use case of the blockchain, the way the dApp ecosystem is built out
could vary. Ideally, the developer ecosystem creates apps organically over time, but if its main use-case is
enterprise heavy, we will need to focus on accelerating value and usable solutions first. To accelerate value,
the core developer of the project as well as strategic partners would need to develop or propel some basic
applications that fulfill an initial use case, and then either open source it or even release an SDK for customization and quick development.

APEX Network
Vision
The vision of APEX Network is to build stronger 1-to-1 relationships between the enterprise and consumers
through proprietary blockchain technology - transforming how interactions, information, and value is exchanged throughout the B2C engagement process. APEX Network will help facilitate increased trust, privacy,
and transparency for B2C interactions. It will also optimize efficiency, cost-effectiveness and help eliminate
middlemen networks when necessary.
Another key component to APEX Network is connectivity, in terms of both connected information as well as
connected value. Information and data, when transacted using fair and transparent protocols, not only can
enhance B2C interactions and experience but also can facilitate B2B data-level collaboration and exchange.
Similarly, connecting and enabling the exchange of brand-assets, such as tokens and loyalty points, on a frictionless platform provides a turnkey gateway to alliances and commercial partnerships that previously require
d manual arrangements.
Brands and enterprises will be able to rapidly build and deploy decentralized applications for use cases
across the customer lifecycle, including but not limited to marketing, CRM, customer experience optimization,
loyalty, and customer insights.

Platform Framework
The comprehensive framework of the APEX Network blockchain is 3-fold - the core blockchain layer, the service layer, and the application layer. The core layer allows for the flexibility of transactions, assets, and dApps
to reside on either the main network or side networks (sidechains) for both scalability and enterprise ecosystem considerations. For an enterprise to create new tokens or assets, it must occur on the sidechain, while
the main network still maintains full record of all transactions, as well as would be required for cross-sidechain
transactions. The APEX Network uses a delegated Proof of Stake (DPOS) consensus mechanism for the main
network and Proof-of-Stake (PoS) for any sidechain on APEX Network.

The service layer serves as the building blocks for real applications and fosters data connectivity to real world
and external systems. On top of the RESTFul API, there will be initially 4 SDK’s - Java, Scala, Go, and APEXm,
an XML-based markup language and syntax system custom-built to quickly customize and deploy decentralized applications. Initial selection of Scala, Java, and Go is considering a combination of enterprise fit, data-driven application suitability, and overall performance.
The APEX Data Connector is enterprise-grade data and API middleware built for use on top of APEX Network
smart contract system and use with service layer API and SDKs. APEX Data Connector will enable easy development of both inbound and outbound data transmission as well as triggering certain external actions. This
is done through a YAML/XML-based API middleware syntax developed by Chinapex since 2016 with a DAG
(directional acyclic graph) logic structure. This module is crucial for building enterprise-grade applications
requiring integrating with existing legacy systems data sources, and platforms.
The application layer gives boundless potential for applications surrounding the B2C customer lifecycle, such
as CRM, marketing, customer experience enhancement, customer loyalty, gamification, data exchange, customer insight, and other engagement-related applications. Two initial applications built by APEX will be CPX
Wallet, and a cross-network DEX for APEX Network-based asset exchanges, which will be also embedded
within CPX Wallet.

Sidechains
APEX Network utilizes sidechains as one of the key unique features of the blockchain for 1) scalability of
standalone applications and localized transactions that do not need to apply to the entire network (in other
words enterprise user-specific transactions ) 2) seamless transfer of assets across main network and various sidechains while keeping “workstreams” separate at the same time. Sidechains on APEX Network use a
2-way peg in which CPX and other assets can be transferred to and from the main network and sidechains.
To create a sidechain, a APEX Node Client will need to be run on at least one server, with the main account
meeting the minimum Supernode requirements, including amount CPX held (it requires at least one Supernode to create an APEX Network sidechain). Unlike other blockchain sidechains in which different technology can be used from main chain to sidechain, APEX Network sidechains can be thought of as essentially
mini-replicas of the main network with a subset of the functionality and permissions as the main network (ie.
sidechains cannot create and index additional sidechains). We recommend each enterprise user to at least
have one sidechain on APEX Network, depending on size of organization and breadth of use case, as well
as APEX core development team having its own sidechains for various projects and initial applications.

Consensus Mechanism
APEX Network uses Delegated Proof-of-Stake (DPOS) as its consensus mechanism for the main network,
which uses a reputation system and real-time voting to achieve consensus. Delegates (Supernodes) must
hold a minimum amount of CPX before they can be eligilble to be voted. Once Supernode status has been
achieved, their main roles include 1) aggregation of transactions across the main network into blocks 2)
validate the transactions by signing and broadcasting the blocks 3) help resolve consensus issues in a
democratic manner. Typical Supernodes on APEX Network are expected to be run by APEX Core Development, enterprises/brands, certain strategic investors, and application partners. In the initial phases of Mainnet
launch, APEX and Chinapex will provide technical and operations support on setting up Supernodes.
DPOS allows for major speedups in transaction times and minimize effort and resources required to run and
secure the network. For sidechains created extending the main network, a Proof-of-Stake (POS) consensus
mechanism will be used - for the purpose of growing the sidechain ecosystem in a scalable manner (maintaining a localized delegated voting system per sidechain does not make functional and economic sense in the
particular use cases of APEX Network).

Supernodes
Supernodes on the APEX Network will receive rewards in CPX based on an incentives framework, which
specifications will be released in detail by APEX Network in May 2018. The dimensions in which total incentive amount per Supernode is determined includes:
I. The amount of CPX held in account
II. Total transaction volume of CPX across main network
III. Supernode status
IV. Number of sidechains created and sidechain transaction volume
There will be a standard profit sharing of Supernodes to voters set in the range of 30-40%. Voters who
receive profits will be split into three tiers (There is a 50:32:18 ratio in weight difference in profits received
between T1/T2/T3):
- T3 - no minimum requirement on CPX held
- T2 - minimum 70,000 CPX required
- T1 - minimum 200,000 CPX required

Smart Contracts
APEX Network utilizes a different smart contract system than typical public blockchains - our goal is to provide enterprise users with the largest flexibility, scalability, and confidentiality when necessary for their various
B2C (and B2B) applications. APEX Network’s approach is to create multi-layered architecture for smart contracts, which consists of the data layer, logic layer, and middleware layer.
Data Layer - The on-chain layer directly running APEX Virtual Machine (APEXVM) defining the data logic and
schema on the main network or side networks. All data and transactions will be persistent on the APEX Network blockchain.
Logic Layer - The logic layer is a secure layer that hosts the functional and business logic of the smart contract. The logic layer does not need to be run on the nodes of APEX Network and can be run in the cloud
or a remote server. The logic layer consists of what APEX refers to as 1) The logic container and 2) the logic
package, which contains the custom code for execution. The logic layer will require digital signatures using
private keys, enclaves, and other features to perform cryptographically secure operations. The logic container wil also be able to expose APIs to connect with the middleware layer and other outside systems. The logic
layer is what provides APEX Network’s smart contract scalability.
Middleware Layer - The middleware layer is the service layer that communicates with outside systems and
data sources, this is effectively the APEX Data Connector, which we will outline in more detail in the next section.

APEX Data Connector
APEX Data Connector is a heavily modified version of APEX Link tailored for use with APEX Network. APEX
Link is a proprietary data integration middleware technology developed by Chinapex in 2016 for the purpose
of rapid two-way functional and data integration of external systems and data sources into flagship data
platform NEXUS. The technology was used with large success by its enterprise user base and decreased
integration time and resources to nearly 15% of manual integrations.
APEX Data Connector consists of 3 main modules:
Adapter
The adapter module serves as the “socket” for all all major API and connection types to external systems,
including REST, SOAP, RPC, and MQTT. It serves a similar purpose to an API gateway.
FnTable (Function Table)
FnTable abstracts any API call to the adapter module into DNS-like pointers representing functions. Each
function has a specific rules and parameters, as well as return values. Original implementation of FnTable data
structure was using Aerospike on SSD persistence.
Mapper
The mapper is where virtually any type of integration regardless how complex can be implemented in an
efficient and simplified fashion. To create a map requires a setting up a mapping document in JSON or YAML
(XML-like) format. A map consists of multiple nodes in the structure of a DAG (directional acyclic graph), with
each node as a abstracted function from FnTable. If we imagine the graph having a left to right direction,
left-right represents primary importance of runtime execution order and and top-down represents secondary
priority. Return values of one node/function can be passed on to the next node as a parameter. The last node
will always by default the END node, which finishes the map and may have an optional return value dataset (if
the objective is to retrieve data from an external system).

Personal Data and Transactions
One of the advantages of APEX Network is that it has built-in capability for data privacy, consent protocols,
and transactions protocols for both B2C and B2B use cases. We use a hybrid on-chain and off-chain consumer data management model that facilitates data ownership, transparency, auditability, and access control.
We call this data management protocol the APEX Transactional Data Management System, or ATDM in short.
ATDM is built as a native module in the APEX Virtual Machine and can be easily plugged into smart contracts
and decentralized applications. The basic building blocks of ATDM is as follows:
- In terms of smart contracts and APEXVM, ATDM acts as an object that has methods, input parameters, and
return valuies.
- To create any data transaction protocol using ATDM, the program just needs to create a new ATDM instance
and initialize it with rules and properties. (cost controls, preconditions, maximum transactions, etc). There may
be multiple ATDM containers per contract or dApp.
- ATDM has a fixed set of native building blocks to protect consumer data:
i. Identity management - for personal users, there are two types of data that are transactable 1)
unified identity data and 2) application data. Each user has multiple sub-identities associated with different
applications.
II. Access control - give access to enterprise users with a customizable set of policies.
III. Encryption - encrypted data is routed from the blockchain (using SHA-256 hash) and stored offchain in a DHT (distributed hash table) run by a collection of Data Cloud Nodes. Consumers users will be
able to store a portion of their unified identity and personal data on the Data Cloud Nodes.

The Data Cloud nodes housing encrypted consumer data from the APEX Network dApp ecosystem will initially be hosted by APEX Core Development and infrastructure partners and eventually will open up the Data
Cloud to be hosted partially by the CPX holding-community, in which would include a separate rewards and
incentives program, which would come from data transaction fees.

Cross-Network DEX
Connectivity of enterprise and brand assets is prone to become an important facet of the B2C ecosystem
- through the exchange and liquidity of enterprise assets (that can be exchanged for tokenized products,
rewards, items) across the blockchain, B2C interactions would have further augmented value and economies
of scale, as well as making B2B commercial partnerships becoming more frictionless and effortless.
For APEX Network, it means that having a mechanism of liquidity and exchange across different asset classes
with CPX being the main traded medium - in other words a decentralized exchange DEX protocol native to
the platform. Note that here simplicity, transactional speed, and liquidity is valued over actual “trading” functionality. The ideal method of transaction is simply exchanging one asset for another through the CPX Wallet
or any custom enterprise wallets through the same API-enabled DEX protocol.
APEX Network will be building a CPX-based enterprise asset DEX that will make it easy for consumers,
enterprises, and partners to swap between assets. The DEX will be built off of APEX Virtual Machine as both
a dApp and extensible protocol on the main network, and will utilize a multi-reserve approach for instant
liquidity. Each reserve, via a APEXVM smart contract, can list asset/CPX trading pairs and control a price-setting mechanism, and each request to sell or trade a certain amount of a particular asset will be transacted
with the reserve with the best offer. The reserve will have the option of separating reserve management and
funds management from the reserve itself (ie. managed through a 3rd party market maker or partner). This
approach is very similar to the DEX protocol of Kyber Network. We expect initial reserve holders to be APEX
Core Development, who will hold multiple CPX/asset pairs, our enterprise ecosystem, which will hold their
own CPX/asset pairs and that of their partners in the ecosystem, as well as investors and the CPX-holding
community, who will have an opportunity to gain profit of transaction spreads.
It’s clear that there is a myriad of different on-chain and hybrid (on-chain + offchain) approaches to developing
a DEX, but after evaluating use-case suitability we find this one to be the most suitable approach.

Application Layer
Overview
APEX Network provides boundless possibilities to build next generation consumer applications with optimized trust, relationships, engagement, and interactivity - it also provides a collaborative and trust-based
gateway for commercial partnerships on frictionless blockchain protocol. Its focus on speed-to-value, scalability of applications, and real-world connectivity adds to its potential value for the B2C lifecycle.
Next we will take a look at some example use cases of APEX Network, which include but are not limited to:
- B2C Data Transactions
- B2B Data Exchange
- Rewards Exchange/Alliance
- Gamification
- Consumer Insights/Analytics
- Interactive Messaging
- Unified Customer Experience
- IoT Interactions

CPX Wallet

The CPX Wallet will be the official and initial wallet developed by APEX Core Development for the main
purpose of storing and transacting both NEP-5 CPX (placeholder) and APEX Network Mainnet CPX, as well as
various assets on the APEX Network blockchain. An NEP-5 CPX and Mainnet CPX swap functionality will be
implemented directly in the CPX Wallet after Mainnet launch for the CPX-holder’s convenience.
The CPX-based DEX protocol will also be implemented directly in the CPX Wallet for maximum ease in swapping across different enterprise assets on the APEX Network. Other features will include:
Unified data settings and permissions
Unified individual data and identity management, data permission setting for enterprise users and various
dApps.
Brand and reward discovery
Users can discover enterprises and brands that are a part of the APEX Network ecosystem, as well as discover the rewards and products that can be redeemed using CPX-based assets.
Personal tags and attributes
Personal tags and attributes can be set as both a way for enterpises users to discover individual consumers
as well as data-level attributes that are transactable and monetizable for the consumer user. Initial implementation for tags and attributes will eventually be moved to a distributed hashtable in the Data Cloud Nodes as
described in an earlier section.
The development plan for CPX Wallet has been adjusted and optimized to the strategy of a public blockchain
platform - where freedom for enteprises to develop and customize their own customer experiences and
applications are a priority. CPX Wallet will provide the basic and standard functionalities and a DEX, but we
expect enterprise users to develop their own versions of an asset wallet for their customer and user base as
well. APEX Core Development will open source CPX Wallet codebase upon Version 1 non-beta release for
redevelpment use by the enterprise users, application partners, and the ecosystem.

Example Application Scenarios
B2C Data Transaction
APEX Network will make it easy for enterprises and partners to create privacy-focused, consent-driven, and
fair compensation data sharing and transaction protocols between enterprises and consumers. The protocol can be embedded within a non decentralized application or could be a standalone dApp built on top
of APEXVM. One or multiple ATDM (APEX Transactional Data Management) instances can be initialized in a
smart contract and the application can configure the ATDM instance to its requirements and needs. To take
extra measures to insure data quality, a data verification mechanism can be added via APEX Data Connector. Using APEX Network to build B2C data sharing protocols allows enterprises to build trust and a deeper
connection with their users, as well as stay compliant with regulations such as GDPR. The enterprise can set a
tokenized cost structure that it finds suitable - of course, the consumer can also determine the minimum price
particular dimensions of his or her data is worth.

B2B Data Exchange
The value of APEX Network’s data ecosystem is amplified when data transactions are also conducted between enterprises. The mechanism and protocol is similar to B2C data transactions but do not require an
ADTM instance to be in place. A protocol is setup via an APEXVM smart contract where terms and conditions are configured for data exchange. The smart contract can dictate whether the data exchange 1) uses
data-to-data model and if so, what would be considered a “balanced transaction” 2) enterprise assets and
tokens for data and a fair data valuation formula 3) or both. If it’s determined that a 3rd party data verifier is to
be used, then a connection to an external data verification source can also be setup via APEX Data Connector. Depending on the enterprise’s policy on compliance, a B2B transaction protocol with 2 or more participants may want to include a consumer consent step if it is transacting on consumer data, which can be done
easily be initializing an instance of ATDM within the smart contract.
A B2B data exchange protocol may be built on APEX Network by not only by enterprises themselves but also
by third party application partners and consumer data related companies.

Rewards Exchange/Alliance
Previously brand and enterprise reward points programs have been largely ineffective and silo-ed, meaning
that for the consumer they were not connected or transactable with that of other enterprises. And when that
did happen, often what it comes down to is manual business negotiations and sit-down meetings with long
decision cycles and more importantly, cumbersome and complex integrations. APEX Network has an out-ofbox solution that solves this problem. On the APEX Network, one solution is as follows:
1) Create an enterprise sidechain on APEX Network or have at least one running
2) Create a new enterprise asset/token on the sidechain - that asset can directly replace the legacy loyalty
or reward points system the enterprise is using. Code in the “points” distribution events in a smart contract
under different conditions and touchpoints.
3) To swap for another enterprise asset, simply utilize a DEX protocol on the APEX Network to first swap to
CPX and then CPX to the other asset. If APEX Core Development’s DEX protocol is used, then instant liquidity
can be provided (via multi-reserve system, please refer to the DEX section of this paper for more details).
The approach described above is only the simplest solution that does not consider special alliances or commercial arrangements. For two enterprises that have a special arrangement or a strategic partnership, they
are able to setup a structured exchange protocol via APEXVM smart contract according to special rules or
exchange rates, and can swap directly from asset to asset without converting to CPX first.

Interactive Messaging
Current studies show that around 52% of consumers find push notifications annoying. Typically when a
promotional push notification or text message appears, the enterprise has a particular purpose to stimulate consumer behavior into some type of purchase-related behavior. An ideal case is instead of a mode of
solicitation (the result may be switching off or muting notifications altogether), a value is attached to each
interaction associated with the message. This can start by opening the message, and then if the message is
a rich media format (contains text, images, video, etc), by interacting certain parts of the message or media, a
tokenized reward gets credited, and tokens can redeem rewards or be swapped for other assets. This type
of engagement method increases engagement depth, longevity, and reduces annoyance and solification-like
experiences.
The method in which we can deploy these applications is simplified via APEX Network’s architecture. The
steps would be as follows:
1) A sidechain is required if an enterprise asset is to be used as incentive, or alternatively, a sidechain is not
required if CPX is to be used. Create a smart contract that serves as a controller for disbursing rewards to
public addresses on the network based on certain triggered actions - it may be necessary to connect the
contract with an external data source matching public key and some other types of identifiers (username,
device-ID, etc) using APEX Data Connector.
2) Create a simple API for the post message-opening action on either the landing page or within a mobile application to track actions. Integrate the APi with APEX Data Connector and pass on corresponding identifiers
as parameters for matching.
3) The loop is complete and the consumer may participate in interactive messaging.

Gamification
Gamification in both the B2C sector as well as in the workplace has been experiencing growth in the past few
years, and has created higher engagement levels but often with limited longevity because it typically offers
little incentive for consumers. Using APEX Network to tokenize reward assets and use them in gamification
applications allows for an extra level of engagement, especially with the potential to exchange the assets for
other utility assets or cash (CPX).

Unified Customer Profile/Customer Experience
A unified customer experience and a seamless customer journey across multiple touchpoints is crucial for optimizing customer lifecycle management and CRM - but in fact it’s one of the most common and difficult problems that B2C enterprises face. A traditional approach would have been to treat each customer touchpoint
and channel separately (online, retail, mobile, partner network) and collect data to optimize customer experience for each of these touchpoints. Recently a better approach is to use unified customer data platforms
(CDPs), where data is collected from these touchpoints and stitched together into unified customer profiles
based on rules (ID-matching). This is a significant improvement, but guesswork is still done in the process and
is prone to non-matches, data cleansing issues, and inaccurate insights about the customer.
The goal to achieve a truly unified and seamless customer profile is still not achieved - and a large reason
is because the profile and data is collected, centralized, and analyzed by the enterprise and not owned and
managed by the consumer herself.
APEX Network enables enterprises and brands to build applications that enable a decentralized “unified customer profile” controlled and managed by the consumer. Below we outline a basic approach that is one of the
various ways that customer experience personalization with a unified customer view on APEX Network can
be implemented.

The approach we will briefly describe below:
1) Setup a smart contract on APEX Network, exposing an API that the unified customer experience app will
use for the consumer to communicate with the smart contract.
2) Consumer manages profile and data settings in the app, which can set a confined structure for the data-level settings (ie. only specific tags and numericals within a particular range)
3) Encrypted consumer data gets sent to the blockchain and routed to the DHT cloud where it’s stored.
4) Smart contract, via APEX Data Connector, will connect to a reference data source containing a “look-up
table” of rules for experience customization/personalization under various data-driven instances
5) Result is returned to the smart contract and signal is sent to the personalization or experience triggers
across different channels online and offline, again via APEX Data Connector. Channel/touchpoint detection
and selection is a non-complex mechanism (for example, to see if the user is currently online or in a retail
store) that the enterprise developer can implement.

Artificial Intelligence
When considering artificial intelligence combined with blockchain, we typically consider one of three possibilities: 1) distributed machine learning via blockchain protocol 2) blockchain assisting auxillary processes related
to AI, including recording machine-made decisions on the blockchain and decentralized supervised learning
or 3) obtaining value from the blockchain and using it on off-chain AI.
For the purposes of the use case of marketing, CRM, and customer insights, currently the third is by far the
most valuable and quick to realize value. For this particular use case relating to customer interactions, most of
the AI-related applications used are related to predictive customer insights and natural language processing
(NLP), and for these applications the most crucial are the quality, depth, recency, and relevance of the data
being used for the machine learning models.
Data quality, cost effectiveness, and transparency are some of the areas in which APEX Network adds value.
Through any of the B2C or B2B data exchange protocols outlined above combined with use of external data
verification tools in particular cases, we have permissioned, transparent, and consented data that are higher
quality than the majority of the structured and unstructured data collected and purchased from various sources.
Chinapex, the company behind APEX Network, has been developing predictive AI technology since 2016 to
solve problems in marketing, personalization, and CRM. One of Chinapex’s flagship AI products, IQ, enables
enterprise users to use proprietary predictive machine learning, deep learning, and NLP algorithms to produce deep actionable consumer and customer insights across industries such as finance, travel, retail, automotive, and internet. Particular pilot program enrollees of APEX Network are also existing enterprise users
and customers of our AI product IQ.
Upon testnet launch IQ will be the first AI technology integrated with APEX Network and used to test and
refine the AI-readiness of datasets acquired via APEX Network.

[Chinapex’s AI platform IQ in action - machine learning model selection panel]

About APEX Network

80+

300+

35+

360 Million

40+

Employees

Global Enterprise
Customers

Employees in
R&D

Consumer Profiles
Tracked Annually

Global System
Integration Partners

Chinapex is a customer data technology and AI company headquartered in Shanghai with offices in
Beijing, Hong Kong and Silicon Valley. We combine cutting-edge AI and blockchain technology to tackle
problems in areas of marketing, personalization, and customer analytics. We have served over 300+ mid
to large global and China enterprises in sectors of finance, travel, automotive, retail, ecommerce, internet
and real estate.

One of 15 out of 1000 companies
selected for Microsoft Accelerator Shanghai, the most selective
accelerator in China.

#21

Ranked number 21
on 2018 Top Artificial
Intelligence Companies
in China (China Internet
Weekly)

#19

Ranked number 19
on 2017 Top Big Data
Technology Companies
in China (China Internet
Weekly)

2016’s Standard Chartered’s
“Most Promising Technology
Startup” Award in the big data
analytics and machine learning
space.

iResearch “Best
Marketing Technology
Platform of the Year”

Core Management Team

Jimmy Hu
Founder & CEO

- Founder & CEO of Chinapex
- Founder & CEO of APEX Network
- Oversees a combination of strategy, product, and vision
- Built internal marketing analytics and data mining for Microsoft, multi-year Microsoft technology contractor
- China & Asia big data and AI market advisor for Gerson Lehrman Group and
multiple US financial institutions
- Forbes China 30 Under 30
- China Internet Weekly “Person of the Year” for Artificial Intelligence
- UC Berkeley BS Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences
- Manages day-to-day operations of Chinapex
- Managed multiple internal data analytics projects for Microsoft, Global Sources,
Maserati, Hilton, and various other enterprise customers
- Keynote speaker at marketing technology and big data conferences such as
GDMS, iDigital, & CBIS
- China Internet Weekly “Innovative Leader of the Year Award”, and “Person of
the Year 2016”.
- UC Berkeley BS Political Economy, Minor EECS

Tiger Yang
President & COO
- Director of Engineering @ Alibaba, managed a team of 30+ person R&D team
- CTO @ 360 Finance
- Team Lead @ Youku, Machine Learning
- Team Lead @ Microsoft
- Microsoft IT Pro Award and Future Star Award
- Software Engineering @ Autodesk
- Masters Computer Science from Tongji University

Richard Wang
CTO
- Product Director @ Alibaba, big data analytics division and Alibaba Cloud
- Ailbaba “Product Expert of the Year”
- Analytics and personalization recommendation system team leader @Sohu, one
of China’s largest internet platforms
- Director of big data products @ Emar
- Masters in Statistics from Renmin-University w/ focus on Machine Learning

Robert Xu
VP Product
- 10 years of sales management experience, and has served clients in finance, automotive, retail and other industries.
- Worked as VP Business of Beyondsoft, and has successfully managed up to hundreds of millions of annual sales revenue in big data, AI, and CRM solutions.
- Commercial Head at Microsoft for China Eastern Region for Enterprise IT Solutions
- Technology Manager at AvePoint
- Master in Software Engineering, Fudan University.

Larry Fang
VP Business

Technology & Operations Team
We have built a world-class team of passionate and talented individuals across engineering, product, and
operations that come from a variety of top technology and internet companies.

Advisory Team

James Chou
CEO
Microsoft Accelerator
Shanghai

Jacky Hsu
Program Manager
Microsoft Azure
Blockchain

Ding’an Fei
Managing Partner
Ledger Capital

Henry Wu
Venture Partner
Ledger Capital

Richard Wang
Partner
Draper Dragon

Jonathan Ha
Founder & CEO
Red Pulse

Lasse Clausen
Partner
1kx

Chris Heymann
Partner
1kx

John Lin
Associate Partner
Trinity Ventures

Darius Rugvicius
Partner
Connect Capital

JC Xu
Founder
Badwater Capital

Kenny Hsia
Founder
Badwater Capital

Wei Zhao
Director of
Engineering,
Appdynamics

Paul Yang
General Manager
Oracle Marketing
Cloud China

Aaron Choi
Vice President
BTCC

Enterprise Customer Ecosystem
Chinapex has a 300+ and growing enterprise customer and brand ecosystem and growing across various
large B2C verticals, including financial services, travel, automotive, retail, ecommerce, and internet.

Technology, Infrastructure, and Ecosystem Partners

Global Offices

Huaxin Tech Park
Building J, 2st Floor
192 Tianlin Rd,
Xuhui District, Shanghai
Tel: +86-21-6170-0720
Email: sh@chinapex.com

F2-11-R18, 3Q, SOHO
Phase 2, No.9 Guanghua
Rd, Chaoyang District,
Beijing
tel: 010-53274657
Email:info@chinapex.com

Hong Kong Trade Centre
161-167 Des Voeux Rd 5F
Suite C2 Central, Hong
Kong
Tel:+852-2158-1888
Email: hk@chinapex.com

111 Deerwood Rd
Suite 200 San Ramon, CA
94583
Tel: +1-925-203-5700
Email: sf@chinapex.com

Development Roadmap

Finish Development of
NEXUS

2016 & Before
Q1 2017

Start research and planning process for APEX
Network and testing various existing blockchain
technologies.

Release first version of
CPX Wallet

Finish Development and Release
of AI platform IQ

Q3 2017
Early February
2018

Start development of
proprietary APEX Network
Blockchain

Late Q2/Early
Q3 2018
Q3 2018

Release Beta Version of
APEX Data Connector

Q1 2019

Release APEXVM and
Smart Contract System
with Scala and Java SDK

Q3 2019

Release Go SDK
Release DHT Cloud

Release APEX Blockchain
Testnet
Release APEX Data
Connector

APEX Mainnet Launches

Release DEX
Release APEXm markup
language

Q4 2018

Q2 2019

Q3/Q4 2019

References
1. https://www.ecommercewiki.org/wikis/www.ecommercewiki.org/images/5/56/Global_B2C_Ecommerce_Report_2016.pdf
2. https://www.forbes.com/sites/nickclements/2018/03/05/equifaxs-enormous-data-breach-just-got-even-bigger/
3. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yahoo!_data_breaches
4. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook_and_Cambridge_Analytica_data_breach
5. https://www.gigya.com/blog/state-of-consumer-privacy-trust-2017-fear-hope/
6. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation
7. https://www.chinalawblog.com/2017/05/china-cybersecurity-and-data-protection-laws-change-is-coming.html
8. http://info.localytics.com/blog/the-inside-view-how-consumers-really-feel-about-push-notifications
9. https://hbr.org/2017/03/blockchain-will-transform-customer-loyalty-programs
10. https://hbr.org/2002/02/avoid-the-four-perils-of-crm
11. http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-future-of-automotive-retail/$FILE/EY-future-of-automotive-retail.pdf
12. http://assets.unisys.com/Documents/Global/POVPapers/POV_170649_HowBlockchainCouldRevolutionizeTheBankingIndustry.pdf
13. https://www.cognizant.com/whitepapers/retail-opening-the-doors-to-blockchain-codex2879.pdf
14. https://research.skift.com/reports/the-future-of-blockchain-in-travel-distribution-2018/
15. http://www.ftaccelerator.it/blockchain-technology-future-fashion/
16. https://home.kyber.network/assets/KyberNetworkWhitepaper.pdf
17. https://edtechmagazine.com/higher/article/2017/09/experts-see-new-ways-track-learning-experiences-blockchain

Thank You

