The Belacam White Paper
Belacam Overview
What we do
Belacam.com​ is a social media site, founded in 2016, where 200,000+ people earn money
online in a fun, social setting. The centerpiece of the platform is a familiar content sharing
system. Belacam is used just like Instagram — users post their own photos and videos,
follow each other, and give likes. However, each like is a microdonation of the Bela token
given from the liker to the liked user. Each photo ‘like’ conveys one Bela (about $.02), which
the receiver can withdraw or use to like another person’s photo.

Mission
We are building a platform for people to earn a
meaningful amount of money in a simple and
legitimate way without having to be taught new skills.
Belacam, originally intended to be the "Instagram of
Cryptocurrency," has become an earning platform for
impoverished communities, cryptocurrency
enthusiasts, and everyday smartphone users.
Dedicated users can earn about a dollar per photo,
and the top users are already earning as much as $5
- $15 per post. ​To Americans, that's some nice extra

change, but for people in impoverished countries, this can be life-changing.
We see students in rural Brazil photograph their school day to earn what most kids get with
their weekly allowances. There's an entire group of farmers in Vietnam and Indonesia who
post pictures of their crops to supplement their harvest income. When a Venezuelan is on
Belacam, their country's hyperinflation and strict monetary controls can't touch their
earnings.
With Belacam, people are able to take their passion and creativity and pursue it on a level
playing field. This is how Belacam helps people around the world access economic
opportunity, become internet entrepreneurs, and reach their full potential.

The Bela Community
We have 200,000+ users from all around the world. 75% of Belacam users are male while
25% are female. 60% of users are younger than 35 years old. According to Google Analytics,
our users’ largest interests are in finance and investing, followed by business and
entrepreneurship, and finally, online entertainment. The one thing that our users all have in
common is their ambition for earning online. They’re go-getters, and they love adopting new
tech or startups before the mainstream masses.

This is the profile of Sergey, a Belacam user and BELA holder. He has earned over $1,500
in Bela via likes on his content on Belacam.

THE BELA TOKEN
History
The Bela cryptocurrency was initially launched as a fork of Litecoin in January, 2014 by a
serial coin developer in New Jersey. Soon after, Bela was listed on the Poloniex crypto
exchange. In 2016, the developer passed leadership of Bela over to our current team, and
we began to develop Belacam: Bela’s first real use case.
On Poloniex, Bela quickly gained a reputation as a fun coin to trade. Being a small
market-cap coin, the markets were more volatile and exciting than many of the large
market-cap coins. Bela was relatable as well — average traders could easily understand and

evaluate our social-media product, which is rare in cryptocurrency markets. In the 18 months
following our takeover of Bela, the coin saw $125 million in trading volume.
Despite the trading success, Bela’s blockchain was lagging far behind industry standards.
Operating with much of our 2014 code, the blockchain would occasionally get “stuck,” and
transactions could take as long as 72 hours to process. We recognized that this tech could
not scale to fulfill our mission, so we set out to overhaul Bela’s entire codebase.
Throughout April and May of 2018, we updated Bela’s source code from a Litecoin fork
blockchain to an ERC-20 token. The new Bela integrates seamlessly into other
ERC-20-supporting products, like Binance’s Trust wallet for the iPhone. Unfortunately,
Poloniex did not update their deposit and withdrawal system to support the new Bela, and
Bela trading on Poloniex was discontinued.
Bela now trades on other exchanges: Mercatox.com, OOObtc.com, and Coinexchange.io.
Our team regularly seeks new and larger exchange listings, and we are confident that they
will come as Belacam continues to grow.

Technical Specs
Bela is an ERC-20 token that piggybacks on Ethereum’s blockchain. Whenever Ethereum
blocks are mined, Bela transactions are processed as well by the same miners. When the
world-class developers of Ethereum update its code, Bela benefits from the same upgrades.
Here is the only information that is needed to integrate Bela into any ERC-20 compatible
wallets and infrastructure, like MyEtherWallet, Parity, etc.:
Ticker Symbol​: BELA
Contract Address: ​0x2e98a6804e4b6c832ed0ca876a943abd3400b224
Decimals​: 18

Staking
The current supply of Bela is around 50 million, and about 5.6 million new Bela are minted
every year. 4 million are distributed to Bela holders and 1.6 million go to our company for
operating and promotional expenses.

The 4 million Bela distributed to Bela holders are created through a unique staking process
that mimics proof-of-stake. Users “lock up” some Bela in a smart contract for 30 days and
earn 3 - 4% interest on it after the month-long maturation period, like a bank CD. We
developed this feature from scratch, and Bela remains one of the only ERC-20 tokens to
offer staking. An iPhone staking app in the coming months will make Bela one of the most
accessible interest-bearing cryptocurrencies in existence.

BELACAM IN DETAIL
Growth
After more than a year of beta testing with 3,500 users, the final-release of Belacam.com
was launched on July 20th, 2018. In the next few months, we found our stride, and strong
traction took hold in January of 2019. Each month this year, we have nearly doubled our web
traffic and user engagement from the month prior.
Belacam.com Web Traffic and Engagements

Unique Site Visitors

Site Pageviews

January

9,500

210,000

February

24,750 ​(+160%)

400,000 ​(+90%)

March

59,000 ​(+ 138%)

850,000 ​(+112%)

April

67,500 ​(+14%)

1,320,000 ​(+55%)

May

134,500 ​(+99%)

2,890,000 ​(+119%)

In the next few months, we are releasing the Belacam iPhone app. This should spur a
dramatic increase in our growth numbers, especially in western countries. We’ve brought
hundreds of thousands of people to our platform with only a website, and a mobile app will
open the floodgates for millions to come.

Team
Tyler Marx (CEO): ​Tyler is a rising 4th-year student at the University of Virginia majoring in

economics and minoring in entrepreneurship. At UVA, he is a venture partner with Contrary
Capital (a VC firm that invests in university founders) and previously worked with Cav Angels
(the angel investing network for UVA alumni). In 2016, he was named one of the Top 100
Young Entrepreneurs in the nation by the NFIB. Before Belacam, Tyler founded Broad Bay
Boards, which sold officially licensed collegiate-logo skateboards for schools like Alabama
and Florida State. Tyler taught himself to code when he was 17 and is fascinated with the
ability of the internet to provide income for people around the world.
Tanner Roughton (COO)​: Tanner attended Virginia Commonwealth University for a year
before departing school to build Belacam. With years of experience in hospitality, Tanner is
a charismatic motivator who has mobilized thousands of Belacam supporters to promote the
site around the world. Tanner has been involved in the cryptocurrency space since 2014.
Mark Galant (Investor)​: Mark is the founder of Forex.com / GAIN Capital and grew his
company to a valuation of over $1 billion with an IPO on the New York Stock Exchange. In
2018, Forex.com handled nearly $3 trillion of retail foreign exchange volume. Mark provided
a seed investment of $150,000.
Doni Jurabayev (Lead Developer)​: Doni helped write the Django programming language,
which forms the base code that powers sites like Belacam and Instagram. Doni lives and
works remotely from Germany and is an equity-holding team member of Belacam.
Rob Masri​ ​(Advisor)​: Rob is a professor at the University of Virginia School of Law and

previously raised over $5 million as the founder of Cardigan Networks, a mobile loyalty and
advertising startup.

Belacam Revenue Model
A by-product of creating a site with motivated earners who are familiar with cryptocurrencies
is that our audience is extremely valuable to advertisers. Ads that target cryptocurrency
users can pay as high as $10 per 1,000 impressions/views, which is nearly 4x the average
fee for 1,000 Google Adsense impressions ($2.80 per 1,000). Our focus this summer is on

building out our native ad platform and taking inspiration from the admin panel and
advertiser tools that Facebook offers to businesses.
Our ads are proving to be extremely effective at sending traffic that converts into users.
Here are some highlights of our promotional successes so far:
Mercatox.com Crypto Exchange​: Gained 2,750 registered users. Of the past 10,000
users to register for Mercatox, 750 of them came from Belacam. Mercatox lists over
600 coins including Bela, and we directly refer the most traders out of all of their
listed cryptocurrencies.
Presearch Search Engine​: Gained 1,350 registered users
Amplify Exchange​: Gained over 800 pre-registrations before the exchange launch
Brave Browser​: Gained over 750 browser downloads

Belacam Growth over the Next Year
The Mobile App
We see a Belacam mobile app for iPhones and Androids as the key to our expansion
throughout Europe and the United States and a significant factor in user retention for
international users. The Belacam mobile app is currently in development with an expected
release before the end of the summer.

Increasing Revenue and Profit
We continue to develop our advertising platform, allowing companies to tap into the
Belacam crypto community. Advertisements will improve on three fronts:
The Users’ Ad Experience: ​Ads need to be relevant to our users’ interests and

languages. Ads should also rotate so users don’t get bored from seeing the same ad
excessively.
Valuable Ad Campaigns: ​We will continue to build out an analytical report for ad

campaigns. A strong ad report should help our advertisers better understand who
interacts with their ads, which ads work best, and offer suggestions for increasing the
effectiveness of future ad campaigns.
The Ad Sales Cycle:​ We intend to move the majority of our ad sales from outbound
offers to inbound sales interests. Building an advertisement dashboard where

companies can purchase, track, and alter active ad campaigns in a similar manner to
Facebook ads is crucial for solidifying Belacam as the best website for crypto
marketing and promotions.

Improving the Belacam User Experience
As Belacam grows to become the #1 cryptocurrency social media site, we need to improve
its features to offer the best experience possible for our users. We break down Belacam into
separate components (photo-posting, notifications, etc.) and strive for perfection on each
piece, one at a time. This leads to tangible improvements on a weekly basis, as evidenced
by increasing user engagement, traffic, and retention.

More Bela Exchange Listings
As Belacam grows, our user base demands a variety of exchange options for trading Bela.
Our team is working to secure more exchange listings for Bela with a focus on both Bitcoin
and fiat markets.

More Info
Belacam Info

Belacam Website: ​https://Belacam.com
General Mail:​ ​mail@belacam.com

Telegram: ​https://t.me/letslivebela

Twitter:​ ​https://twitter.com/BelacamOfficial
The Team’s Contact

Tyler Marx (CEO): ​tyler@ambiafund.com

Tanner Roughton (COO): ​tanner@ambiafund.com
Bela Info

The Bela Token Website:​ ​https://LiveBela.com

