BitcoinHD:
The Crypto Currency System Based on CPoC
Author : 4142454647484a4b5054575a

https://btchd.org/
1

Contents
1 BHD Introduction ................................................................................................ 3

1.1 Crypto Currency................................................................................................... 3
1.2 Seeking Alternatives............................................................................................. 4

2 The Four Major Problems ............................................................................... 5
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5

Monopoly .............................................................................................................. 5
Power Centralization............................................................................................ 7
Energy Consumption .......................................................................................... 9
Existing PoC Currency Design Issues............................................................... 13
Why Does BHD Appear Now?........................................................................... 13

3 BHD 's Technical Solution ........................................................................... 14

3.1 BHD Distribution and Mining Mechanism...................................................... 14
3.2 BHD Economic Model......................................................................................... 15
3.3 BHD Architecture and Consensus Mechanism................................................ 16
3.3.1 Miners Mining Procedure:............................................................................ 18
3.3.2 Plotting — Create Plot File .......................................................................... 18
3.3.3 Generate a Nonce .......................................................................................... 19
3.3.4 POC Format.................................................................................................... 22
3.3.5 Plot Structure.................................................................................................. 22
3.3.6 Mining and Block Forging............................................................................ 23
3.3.7 Mining Process............................................................................................... 24
3.3.8 Block Forging Process .................................................................................. 26

3.4 BHD Technical Characteristics............................................................................. 27
3.4.1 Blockchain....................................................................................................... 27
3.4.2 Possible Attack and Prevention Design...................................................... 28
3.4.3 Transaction...................................................................................................... 28

4 BHD Tech Roadmap.......................................................................................... 29
2

1 BHD Introduction
BHD is a new crypto currency based on the CPoC(Conditioned Proof of
Capacity) mechanism. By using hard disk as a consensus participant, it can signiﬁcantly
lower energy consumption and entry barrier, making mining of crypto currency safer,
more decentralized and for everyone. BHD generates its unique value through
mathematics and code. This White Paper will explain and elaborate on the monetary and
technical attributes of BHD.

1.1 Crypto Currency
When it comes to crypto currency, before the well-known bitcoin, the entire crypto
community has begun to experiment on a better international payment channel, such
as Dai-Wei's Ripple and B-Money .
Ripple has been used in the settlement between banks in different countries, but never
became quite as popular as was Bitcoin, because it is considered too centralized for a
crypto currency. Compared to those decentralized crypto currencies, Ripple has always
been more appealing to enterprise and business users, but less to the crypto
enthusiasts, because its token generation procedure does not involve or incentivize the
crypto enthusiasts.
B-Money causes network congestion due to the need for network synchronization in its
design. At that time, the network speed was not so fast. During the sending and receiving
of currency, network lag often caused problems, sometimes user receives no reply while
waiting for a network packet. The system was impractical for mass adoption.
Then Bitcoin came to stage with its own Nakamoto consensus, which is the
asynchronous PoW consensus. In the early days, no one was optimistic about this project.
The consensus did not use simultaneous transactions to ensure that transaction results are
right, but instead adopted a very interesting mechanism: the longest chain. That is to say,
in this distributed system, the nodes manipulates packages and composes the chain,
which includes the transaction with the correct result. For this speciﬁc package to appear,
of course, the nodes in this system have to jointly verify. Only given a timeout package
and only when more people participate in the accreditation before timeout, will this
package reach consensus.
3

In this system, there is a situation where nodes can collectively do bad things, so that the
correct transaction is not packaged, and the transmission of the network is invalid. Since
asynchronous system avoids excessive communication in the network, it is more suitable
for multiple-step transactions, While the risk of this mechanism lies with the possibility
of the majority of CPU power being controlled by dishonest nodes. A good example is
the later appeared 51% double spend attack. The last thing the ﬁnancial system should do
is to roll back or double spend, that is also why Bitcoin was not widely accepted at
the beginning .
Over time, a lot of participants joined the system for the ﬁnancial beneﬁts. Since
the difficulty (for manipulating package mentioned above) of the system raised, the cost
of harassing the working system has greatly increased for the bad guys. More stable the
system, more proﬁtable being honest rather than being dishonest. At this time, people
began to realize the fascination of this crypto currency and numerous fans appeared.
After years of difficulty increase, the BTC system has gradually stabilized, making it much
harder to do double-spend or rollback. It also inspired the original teachings of Bitcoin,
and gathered many crypto enthusiasts. It also inspired the original teachings of Bitcoin,
and gathered many crypto enthusiasts. At this time, several new types of crypto
currencies had been born or made by forks and copies, many got attacked because of
their low computational power. The systems with low difficulty are unsafe and can be
easily attacked, while highly available systems need tremendous energy consumption.
We can put a summary on Bitcoin tech features below.
Bitcoin was never aggressive on using new tech, but chose to adopt relatively mature
technologies to build a safe and reliable Peer-to-Peer cash system.The more validated and
simple the technology is, the more secure and trustworthy the system will be. For
example, the SHA256 algorithm in Nakamoto consensus, is designed by NSA (US
National Security Agency), with proven reliability. It seems that the initial design never
considered the current ASIC (Application-Speciﬁc Integrated Circuit) and power
monopoly issues, but focused on pursuing ultimate system security, even sacriﬁced some
of the high efficiency or high concurrency features of internet.

1.2 Seeking Alternatives
When numerous resources are being used in the mining procedure and costs are
gradually increasing, crypto currency enthusiasts have started looking for alternatives to
4

lower power consumption in two different ways: either using new consensus to lower
energy cost or using more general apparatus to lower the cost of mass
production. The golden age of ASIC mining device and anti-ASIC algorithm
implementation had come. The original intention of Ethereum and Monero was to
resist ASIC, using a different non-ASIC-friendly consensus to keep the system away from
ASIC manufacturers’ manipulation while keeping the energy consumption low. However
after a period of time, ASIC manufacturers still found ways to design devices that would
work with the corresponding algorithm. Among those ASIC ones, Litecoin has to be
mentioned. It started with Scrypt which is an anti-ASIC mining algorithm, and soon
ASIC manufacturers started producing ASIC mining devices that could work with Scrypt.
BHD provides the perfect solution for the issues mentioned above. It brings a method for
crypto zealot to make general apparatus while keeping the energy consumption low.
Meanwhile, BHD maintains a relatively high difficulty level to ensure the stability of the
system by using its consensus Proof of Capacity (abbr. PoC). The PoC consensus used
by BHD is also one of the most decentralized consensus mechanisms in this era.
Compared with the PoW, where hash power rules, the PoC consensus is ruled by storage
power, but slightly different from the cloud storage. PoC utilizes hard disks as a more
economical consensus method, so that more people can participate in construction of the
system-stabilizing hash power with their own devices. It was the original intention
of Nakamoto to design PoW, a decentralized system and an innovative path to real
decentralization for everyone, raising consciousness in every new comer to think about
and overturn the existing design. BHD has inherited BTC’s spirit, now the new PoC
mechanism is responsible for bringing a better future for crypto currency, and engaging
more people in the construction of the economic system.

2 The Four Major Problems
Monopoly, centralization of computing power, high energy consumption, and the
incompleteness of existing PoCs have become the four major problems in the Crypto
industry. From the beginning of its design, BHD is aimed at solving the four major
problems.

2.1 Monopoly
Since its inception, Bitcoin has always had the mission to solve ﬁnancial institutions’ crisis
of conﬁdence and issue of monopoly. Since the ﬁnancial crisis in 2008, Nakamoto
5

believed that the centralization of the ﬁnancial system would lead to repetition of the
history, thus decentralization could be an effective solution for the economy.

So after all these years, what is the current status of Bitcoin?

6

The ﬁgure below shows value curve of the entire cryptocurrency market led by Bitcoin.
Does it not look like ﬂuctuations in the ﬁnancial crisis cycle? Which brings us to think if
Bitcoin is still decentralized.
The technology of Bitcoin-core is controlled by the core developers, and the code update
speed is very slow, which can be described as code-centralization. Bitcoin's computing
power is tremendous, ordinary people and personal computers cannot take part and can
only trade in exchanges, which indicates hash-power-centralization. Bitcoin’s block
generation time is relatively slow, about 10 minutes per block, single digit TPS
(Transaction per second) cannot provide the same experience as the current internet.
Bitcoin core wallet did not make any UI/UX enhancement in ten years, and there is
neither a core mobile version, nor any consideration of the current user experience,
which indicates user-experience-centralization. Some people are planning to deploy
lightning network, allowing more centralized companies to join the nodes, turning
the Bitcoin system into a centralized payment system with far worse user experience
than visa.
Many believes that the existing Bitcoin system needs to be changed or overturned,
keeping the decentralization spirit and involve everyone in this revolution. BHD has a
more economical decentralization approach, using lower cost storage instead of CPU/
GPU power. If we believe that centralization can cause crisis to reappear, then we need to
know that monopoly has to be eliminated to avoid any risk of potential crisis in the
crypto world.

2.2 Power Centralization
We mentioned, the main reason for Bitcoin to prevail and be successfully used as the
digital money is that its hash power has been maintained at a relatively high level.
In 2017, Bitcoin hash power was 4400P, daily production was 1,800 coins, every peta hash
power generated 0.4 Bitcoin on average, and consisted of 166 units of 6 tera hash
power mining machine. Here comes the issue, the price of Bitcoin can be inﬂuenced by
mining machine manufacturers through adjusting the price of the mining machine. Thus
as crypto currency participants anticipate an increase in Bitcoin's earnings, everyone is
willing to mine with higher hash power machines, and enjoy a higher possibility to get
rewards through packaging. The top four companies in Bitcoin mining account for
about 53% of the mining share; The Ethereum system has a higher concentration ratio,
the top three mining agencies account for 61% of the mining share. In addition, 56% of
7

the world 's Bitcoin mining software and 28% of Ethereum mining software are
concentrated in the data center, showing that Bitcoin's operations are more corporatized.
The ﬁgure below shows that now Bitcoin’s hash power is about 30,000P - 40,000P.
Compared to year 2017, the hash power has increased by 10 times, which means the
difficulty has also increased by 10 times for participants.

As shown in the ﬁgure below, the hash power has begun to be corporatized, or organized
as pools nowadays, e.g. F2Pool , AntPool , Slush.

8

As hash power gradually increased, the mining machine manufacturers raised the
difficulty of coin generation by making devices with improved conﬁguration, kicking out
many out-of-date device holders and discouraging a large amount of new entrant.
BHD solves the problem by using hard disk related consensus to disperse centralized hash
power. In the existing PoW crypto currency, each collision of the hash value requires a
large amount of calculation, which is of course also a method of managing
difficulty. BHD writes the results of each collision on the hard disk in a pre-computed
way. This is also a common time-for-space method to reconstruct the entire calculation.
That is to say, under different block difficulties, it takes time and calculation, which takes
power consumption differently. While in the BHD system, as long as the hard disk has
enough storage space to contain a sufficient amount of answers the system can involve
every crypto enthusiast in the block generation process, without the need for repeated
large amount of calculations.
Bitcoin block generation process is roughly like the scrabble game, combining hints with
given characters to form a complete word. It is hard for beginners to ﬁgure out what the
word is, and not easy or at least time consuming even for the veterans. Comparatively,
BHD is more like using a search engine, e.g. Google, to ﬁnd the word, since the results
are all pre-calculated. So the more words in the database, the higher the possibility to get
the result. Compared with Bitcoin, BHD has a much lower barrier to entry, and is much
more accessible for every individual.
The problem of hash power centralization can be resolved through such a space-for-time
approach. Of course, this is just one of the problems BHD targets.

2.3 Energy Consumption
The concentration of hash power also brings about the problem of high energy
consumption. So how much resources does the speciﬁc calculation consume?
To give an example, the current energy usage level of Bitcoin is enough to generate
electricity for 10% of Italy, as shown by the ﬁgure below. That is to say, the resources used
by Bitcoin could meet the needs of Rome, Milan and Venice, with a combined population
of 6 million. Just as a popular saying all roads goes to Rome, if the bitcoin makes its way
to Rome, it will also consume all of Rome’s electricity.
9

Since most miners are in mainland China ( e.g. BitMain the famous manufacturer ), I will
give a Chinese example. Now that Bitcoin 's hash power is around 45EHash/s , then in the
case of 1 peta computing power and 0.1 yuan per kWh, it takes about 140000 kWh to do
the speciﬁc calculation, costing an average of 14,000 yuan. China's high-speed railway
consumes more than 9,600 kilowatt-hours per hour. For the 5 hour trip from Shanghai to
Beijing, the train needs to use nearly 48,000 kWh.The current energy consumption
of a Bitcoin is more than enough for a high-speed rail to run a return trip from Beijing to
Shanghai.
So what is the energy consumption of BHD ?
According to the comparison between a current second-hand S9 and a current secondhand 8 terabyte hard drive, the energy consumption ratio is about 1/300. That is, for 200
USD equivalent of electricity, ASIC takes 1700 watts, GPU takes 250 watts. Comparing
those to 8 TB hard disk which cost around 200 USD, the hard disk takes only 5 watts. So
for spending on 100 S9 or 100 8TB hard disk devices with the same total amount of
money, the S9 ones consume 122,400 KWh monthly, while for mining BHD hard disk
ones consume 360 KWh, which is equal to only 5 days of electricity for an average
American family. That makes BHD more accessible for anyone interested to participate
and contribute in the long term.
With such huge difference, the energy saved can be spent on more entities rather than on
repeated consumption. Unlike Bitcoin which has slowly become a game for only few,
BHD’s low power requirement keeps its door open for many.
Another energy related issue is even more serious: PoW's hash power is reﬂected in
energy consumption, but energy is controlled by the national government in most
10

countries, hence with the expansion of hash power, the impact of energy will gradually
increase.
It is shown in the ﬁgure below, the energy consumption of Bitcoin
was 73,121 TWh in October 2018, and decreased drastically to 44,722 TWh in January
2019. This fall in computing power caused by energy reduction affected the difficulty level
of the entire block and the proﬁt of mining machines. This disaster did not only hit
Bitcoin. The minor crypto currencies with PoW consensus had to take the risk of forking.
It was a deadly threat to the correctness and validity of the entire consensus.

11

(chart from https://digiconomist.net/bitcoin-energy-consumption )

Https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/bitcoin-mining_proﬁtability.html
That is to say, if the mining pool is concentrated under any centralized institution, then
the institution can inﬂuence the system’s difficulty level and beneﬁts by adjusting the
relevant energy resources. The computing power would drop dramatically due to a
potential large-scale electricity power decline, which could even cause a PoW coin to
fork. The low power consumption of BHD also provides an effective solution to this
problem, through reducing the dependence on energy and taking a block generation
approach that is more suitable for long-term survival. The PoC consensus is a low-energycost alternative to the current high-energy-cost ASIC based ones. By using the whole
global hard disk storage as medium, PoC generates random numbers to guarantee high
level of security, and ensures stability of the blockchain infrastructure.

2.4 Existing PoC Currency Design Issues
Has anyone considered designing crypto currencies using the designs of hard disks
before? The answer is yes, there was Burst in 2014. Burst quickly promoted
the PoC mechanism and gained a lot of supporters, but at the same time exposed some of
the inherent issues about the original PoC mechanisms. With those in mind, there has
been a series of changes in the BHD tech structure .
At the beginning of Burst's design, there lacked a proper incentive mechanism. A huge
part of the coins was mined by the supporters who joined earlier at a very low cost.
Without the team’s promotion effort, the participants who entered Burst later lacked
motivation, and slowly this PoC currency faded out of sight. BHD adopts a dual incentive
approach, mining could be done by staking or non-staking to balance operation team’s
12

costs and miners' beneﬁts: miners can get all the beneﬁts when they are staking at
designated ratio; When the miners are withdrawing, the rewards are distributed to the
operation team. BHD uses the conditional approach to ensure sustainable development of
the chain and continuous introduction of new miners to maintain a long-term positive
community development.

2.5 Why Does BHD Appear Now?
It is the existence of the above four problems that made BHD come into being.
As the number of crypto enthusiasts increases, the idea of decentralization has gotten
bigger. Of course, everyone who is in the industry wants to be able to beneﬁt. As
Bitcoin 's energy consumption is increasing each day, mining machine manufacturers are
becoming more centralized. The crypto currencies based on PoC is in more demand now
than ever. In addition, PoC consensus mechanism guarantees that the difficulty level can
be quickly controlled, accumulate enough to maintain the normal operation of the
system, and reward the transactions. BHD is superior to the existing crypto currencies in
all the above areas. Its technology has been improved on the basis of Burst, and
completely surpasses many other crypto currencies in technical and community
dimensions.
Compared to the overhead energy assurance algorithm, we believe that low power
consumption can also give the algorithm enough credit to ensure that everyone can use
crypto currency in the future in more scenarios.

13

3 BHD 's Technical Solution
BHD uses PoC as the basis of its consensus mechanism, it ensures sound development of
the entire crypto currency by designing a long-term incentive economic model. At the
same time, it has made some improvements to the existing PoC and upgraded it to
the CPoC consensus.

3.1 BHD Distribution and Mining Mechanism
Total supply

21 million

Development team

10% : 2.1 million. Way: pre-mined

Operation team

5% : 1.05 million.
Way: obtain from blocks generated during miners mining

Miner

85% : 17.85 million. Way: mining

Avg. block time

5 minutes

Initial block size

25BHD / Block , 8MB block size

Halve period

In 4 years, the first halving time is about 420000 block height

Current TPS

70 transactions / sec

Stake

1T hard disk stake 3 BHD.
Note: 1T hard disk is evaluated based on computing power, not
absolute values.

In the ﬁrst month, after mining of the genesis block, miner can mine with no condition
limitation. From the second month onwards, miner need to follow the conditions to start
mining. If the conditions are not satisﬁed by miner, only 30% of the mining reward would
go to the miner, 70% would be transferred to the foundation for marketing uses; If the
conditions are satisﬁed, miner would get 95% of the mining reward, then the 5%
remaining reward would go to the foundation for marketing.
Conditioned proof of capacity, or CPoC, would lead the miners, mining pools, the
foundation and other participants to engage in a positive business cycle, so that the whole
system would always have a dominant temporary commercial vested beneﬁciary (this
vested beneﬁciary could change with variables such as time, price and mining difficulty)
to promote the whole ecosystem.
14

3.2 BHD Economic Model
BHD 's economic model / consensus mechanism has been upgraded based on the Burst
PoC2 (Proof of Capacity) , and is called: CPoC (Conditioned-Proof of Capacity).
The model will solve the problems listed below:
Economic Model Attack
The main purpose of miners mining is the payback period, and the beneﬁts will
inevitably lead to the sale of all mining output, resulting in market crash, lower prices and
thinner proﬁts. The CPoC mining model binds miner to its ecosystem, and uses output of
mining as future input of mining, to make the entire BHD system grow automatically.
POW High Maintenance Cost
It requires a huge amount of power to keep the chain with PoW consensus safe. In good
days, it works ﬁne for each part of the system, but in hard times, miners have to pay bills
by selling, and it is not easy to keep the miners in the system, if they always have to
consider how much energy has been consumed.
Lack of Long-Term Economic Incentive
Without operational incentive funds, the promotional efficiency and market conﬁdence is
low. even the core technology might fail to get continuous update. As a result, effective
development and iterations are non-existent in the long-run, the team may even create a
fork in the subsequent version, and users will no longer be able to tell which is the mainnet.
Mining Machine Monopoly
The POW consensus mechanism will inevitably lead to a race for mining machines. In
order to obtain higher hash power, special-purpose mining machines with higher
performance will be developed inevitably, and ordinary people cannot participate in
mining. The CPoC mechanism is much more accessible because of slow iteration of hard
disk manufacturers and low entry barrier. In traditional businesses, the vendor is
normally not a competitor to users. But in the PoW systems, the ASIC manufacturer is
the biggest miner. It can be easily understood that the miner’s competitor is the miner’s
15

vendor, since device suppliers take most of the proﬁt by providing mining machines,
miner is radically the risk-free arbitrage of ASIC manufacturers
Power Resources Monopoly
The power resources monopoly leads to no PoW ecosystem expansion, as the cost of
mining exceeds the return. For those CPoC miners, the hard disks have much lower
power requirement , thus the return of mining is higher. The linear hedge ratio of civil
computer hardware can also be taken into consideration to ensure that miners can hedge
the price ﬂuctuation risk in the secondary market under the condition of relative safety
and cost protection.

3.3 BHD Architecture and Consensus Mechanism
The BHD wallet is derived from Bitcoin and the consensus from Burst's PoC2 .
Bitcoin started in Jan 2009, the stability of wallet and blockchain is widely accepted after
10 years of iterations, it is safe and reliable to implement the PoC consensus on the
Bitcoin QT wallet.
Burst Coin started in August 2014, and upgraded to PoC2 in 2018 after 4 years of
iteration.
Combining the advantages of Bitcoin and Burst, BHD has currently become the most
reliable public chain with PoC consensus algorithm.
Since its launch on August 3rd 2018, BHD has grown steadily in computing power,
withstood numerous tests, attacks, and cracks, and so far no major loopholes have
emerged.
By adopting the mature POC2 mechanism, a stable and reliable consensus mechanism is
introduced to build community conﬁdence in the BHD public chain. Since being
compatible with Burst Plot ﬁles, miners can get both BHD and BurstCoin beneﬁts, with
only an additional operation.
The BHD wallet inherits Bitcoin's excellent P2P network architecture and UTXO system,
which is mature and stable.

16

The wallet client could implement any latest developments from the Bitcoin community:
lightning network, script upgrades, and much more. The interface standard is kept same
as that of Bitcoin, allowing users to integrate easily.
The CPoC ecosystem model includes mining pool, miner, crypto currency holder, wallet,
exchanges and hardware vendor. The positive inner cycle and entrance of outside
resources would bring expansion and development to this ecosystem, the rising price of
BHD would attract more miners; more miners coming to the system will lead to further
price increase.

The cost of PoW is inﬂuenced by four factors: cost of dishonesty, cost of mining, level of
difficulty and cost of mining devices. In the end, the PoW would become another low
gross margin industry, the former windfall proﬁts was because of insufficient scale,
ﬂuctuation of secondary market and limited device vendors.
When it comes to PoC, due to the relatively low power consumption by hardware, miners
can obtain other coins in the future symbiotic ecosystem of POC almost free of charge
without any risk.
The CPoC system, could give miners the choice to have most of the proﬁts, incur cost for
them to be the holder of other PoC coins, and avoid any malicious act. At the same time,
the CPOC system attaches great importance to the release of distributional right and
packaging right without barrier, which brings equity to the system.
17

BHD network architecture and the participants:

3.3.1 Miners Mining Procedure
1. Plot
Miner plots ﬁle at local hard disk, and uses hash value to ﬁll the disk.
The larger the storage space, the more hash value could be ﬁlled, and higher block
generation rate.
Hash algorithm uses Shabal256, which is anti-ASIC.
2. Transaction
Wallet makes up the P2P network(inherited from BTC): Transactions happen
between wallets.
3. Forging
Miner use wallet to listen to the P2P network, once a block is received, the packaging
process of the next block starts.
Wallet composes a block, sends the hash value of the block to miner, then miner ﬁnds
the matching nonce.
Once wallet receives nonce, it turns the nonce to deadline, wait for the time to end
and then broadcast the block.
18

4. Verify
Receives the block, veriﬁes it.

3.3.2 Plotting — Create Plot File
ALGORITHMS AND ACRONYMS
Shabal: Shabal is the name of the crypto/hash function used in BHD. It is a rather heavy
and slow crypto compared to many other alternatives like SHA256. Thus Shabal is a good
crypto for Proof of capacity coins like BHD, because we store the precomputed hashes
while it is still fast enough to do smaller live veriﬁcations. BHD uses the 256bit version of
Shabal, which is also known as Shabal256.
Hash / Digest: A hash or digest in this context is a 32Byte (256bit) long result of the
Shabal256 Crypto.
Nonce: When generating a plot ﬁle, you generate something that is called nonces. Each
nonce contains 256Kilobyte of data that can be used by miners to calculate Deadlines.
Each nonce has its individual number. This number can range between
0-18446744073709551615. The number is also used as a seed when creating the nonce, so
each nonce has its own unique set of data. One plot ﬁle can contain many nonces.
Scoop: Each nonce is sorted into 4096 different places of data. These places are called
scoop numbers. Each scoop contains 64byte of data which holds 2 hashes. Each of these
hashes are xored with a ﬁnal hash (we get to ﬁnal hash while generating a nonce chapter).
Plot ID: When you create your plot ﬁle it will be bound to a speciﬁc BHD account. The
numeric account ID is used when you create your nonces. Because of this all miners have
different plot ﬁles even if they use the same nonce numbers.

3.3.3 Generating a Nonce
The ﬁrst step in creating a nonce is to make the ﬁrst seed. The seed is a 16byte long value
containing the Plot ID and the nonce number. When this is done we start to feed the
Shabal256 function to get our ﬁrst hash.
19

We have produced the ﬁrst hash. This is the last hash in the nonce. Hash #8191. Now we
take this produced hash (#8191) and pre-append it to the starting seed. The result will
now be our new seed for the next round of shabal256 computation.

We now have produced two hashes. Hash #8191 and Hash #8190. This time we preappend Hash 8190 to the last seed we used. The result will now be a new seed to feed
Shabal256.

Once again, we have created a new hash. This procedure of pre-appending resulting
hashes to a new seed will continue for all 8192 hashes we create for a nonce. After
iteration 128 we have reached more than 4096 bytes in the seed. For all remaining
iterations we will only read the last 4096 generated bytes.
20

Once we have created 8192 hashes we are now going to make a Final hash. This is done
by using all 8192 hashes and the ﬁrst 16bytes as seed.

The ﬁnal hash will now be used to xor all other hashes individually.

We have now created our nonce and can store it in a plot ﬁle before we continue to the
next nonce.

21

3.3.4 POC Format
The POC2 nonce format is created the same way as POC1 with a slight addition to the
end of the process. To create a POC2 formatted nonce we need to shuffle the data around.
The data shuffling process:
1. Dividing the nonce in 2 halves, get a range with scoops 0-2047 and 2048-4095.
2. Name 0-2047 the low scoop range and 2048-4095 the high scoop range.
3. Take the second hash from a scoop in the low range, and swap it with the second
hash in its mirror scoop found in the high range. The mirror scoop is calculated like
this:
MirrorScoop = 4095 – CurrentScoop

3.3.5 Plot Structure
When we are mining we read nonce from one or more plot ﬁles. The miner software will
open a plot ﬁle and seek the scoop locations to read the scoops data. If the plot ﬁle is
unoptimized, the scoop location will be on more than one place. In the following example
the miner will be seeking and reading scoop #403.

22

This is not the most effective way since the miner will spend a lot of time to seek new
locations on the storage device to be able to read the scoops.
To prevent this, we can optimize plots or use plotter software that creates optimized plots
from the beginning.
Optimization is done by reordering the data in the plot ﬁle and grouping all data from
the same scoop number together.

Basically, what we have done is to divide the plot ﬁle into 4096 portions where we split up
all the nonces data based on scoop numbers.
When the miner now wants to read Scoop 4096 it only seeks one time and read all data
sequentially. This provides better performance.

3.3.6 Mining and Block Forging
ALGORITHMS AND ACRONYMS
Shabal / Sha256 / Curve25519
Shabal, Sha256 or Curve25519 is the name of the crypto/hash function used in BHD.
Shabal is the main function in BHD. It is a rather heavy and slow crypto compared to
many other alternatives like SHA256. Thus Shabal is a good crypto for Proof of capacity
coins like BHD because we store the precomputed hashes while it is still fast enough to
do smaller live veriﬁcations. BHD uses the 256bit version of Shabal, which is also known
as Shabal256.
Deadline
When you mine and process Plot ﬁles, you end up with a value called deadline. These
values represent the number of seconds that must pass since the forging of last block
before block-forging is allowed. If no one else forges a block during this period, you can
forge a block and get a block reward.
23

Block Reward
If you are lucky enough to cast a block, you will get BHD. This is called a block reward.
For every 420000 blocks, the block reward is reduced by 50%. The initial reward is 25
BHDs per block, of which 1.25 belongs to the Foundation. Under full conditions, the
miners'Union gets 23.75 BHDs.
Base Target
Base target is calculated from the last 288 blocks. This value adjusts the difficulty for the
miners. The lower the base target, the harder it is for a miner to ﬁnd a low deadline. It
gets adjusted in a way that BHD can have an average of 5 minutes for each block.
Network Difficulty
Network Difficulty, or NetDiff in short, is a value that can be read as an estimate on the
total amount of space in Byte dedicated to mine BHD. This value changes with every
block in relation to base target.
Block Height
Every block forged gets an individual number. Every new block forged gets the previous
block’s number + 1. This number is called block height, and can be used to identify a
speciﬁc block.
Generation Signature
Generation signature is a based from the previous block merkle root and block height,
This value is then used by miners to forge a new block. Generation signature is 32bytes
long.

3.3.7 Mining Process
The ﬁrst thing that happens when you start mining, is that the miner talks to the wallet
and asks for mining information. This information contains a new generation signature,
base target, and the next block height. Before the wallet sends over this info, it creates the
generation signature by taking the previous generation signature together with plot id and
runs this though shabal256 to get the new hash. The miner will now take the new 32byte
generation signature, and the 8byte block height, and put them together as a seed for
Shabal256. The result will be a hash value called Generation hash.
24

Now, the miner will do a small mathematical operation on this hash to ﬁnd out which
scoop number to use when processing the plot ﬁles. This is done by taking the generation
hash modulo 4096, as there are only that many scoops

Next step for the miner is to read all the 64-byte long scoops from all nonces in all plot
ﬁles.
It will process them individually through shabal256 together with the new generation
signature to get a new hash called target. This target is now divided with base target and
the ﬁrst 8bytes of the result is the value deadline.
Target = shabal256 (scoop data, generation signature)
Deadline = target / base target;

To prevent so-called “nonce spamming” to the wallet, the miner usually checks if the
current deadline found is lower than the lowest one it has found so far. Usually there is
25

also a max value that can be set, as ridiculously large deadlines are of no use to anyone.
After these checks, the miner submits information to the wallet. This information
contains the numeric plot ID bound to the plot ﬁle, and the nonce number that contains
the scoop data used to generate the deadline.

3.3.8 Block Forging Process
Handling Deadlines
The wallet has now received the information submitted by the miner, and will now create
the nonce to be able to ﬁnd and verify the deadline for itself.
After this is done, the wallet will now check and see if an equal amount or more seconds
has passed as deﬁned by the deadline. If not, the wallet will wait until it has.
If a valid forged block from another wallet is announced on the network before the
deadline has passed, the wallet will discard the mining info submitted since it is no longer
valid.
If the miner submits new information, the wallet will create that nonce and check if the
deadline value is lower than the previous value.
If the new deadline is lower, the wallet will use that value instead.
When the deadline is valid, the wallet will now start to forge a block.
Forging
The wallet will start by getting all of the unconﬁrmed transactions it has received from
users or from the network.
It will try to ﬁt as many of these transactions possible until it hits the limit of 8M, or until
all transactions are processed.
For each transaction the wallet reads, it will do checks. For example, if the transaction
has a valid signature, if it has a correct timestamp, etc.
The wallet will also sum up all of the added transactions amounts and fees.
BHD Wallet Vs BTC Wallet
BHD inherits the BTC wallet in code level, but differs from BTC in the following aspects:
26

Parameter
Total Supply
Block Time

BTC
21,000,000
10mins

BHD
21,000,000
5mins

Block Size
Halving Cycle

1M
8M
every 4 years
every 4 years
50 BTC
25 BHD
Initial Block Reward
1. BHD expands the block size to 8MB/block, Blocks become larger, and a single block
can contain more transactions to speed up transfers.
2. The avg block generation time is set to 5 mins. Block generation time is halved and the
transaction time has increased.
3. Initial reward is set to 25 BHD/block, halves each 4 years.The initial reward is halved,
giving the community more time to develop, since early adopters are not taking too much
advances, the miner community could share more proﬁts.

3.4 BHD Technical Characteristics
•
•
•
•
•
•

POC2 consensus mechanism;
5-minute block generation time , the transaction speed is faster;
8M block size to improve network efficiency;
Zero knowledge proof will be added once whole network capacity reaches 3000P.
Uses hard disk mining, anti-ASIC, mine without special equipment;
Sustainable, low energy consumption, low noise;

3.4.1 Blockchain

• Block includes proof sub block, signature sub block and transaction sub block .
27

• The arrow indicates that the sub-block contains the signature of the miner which has
•

the arrow pointing to the sub-block.
our challenge is generated by sub-block hashed from Δ blocks before current one.

3.4.2 Possible Attack and Prevention Design
While creating blocks, miners can try different transaction combinations, making the
blocks created biased towards themselves. In our block structure, the independence of
the proof sub-block prevents this attack.
Challenge Grinding
• In the process of mining, miners can divide their space into m parts , then continuously
refactor t = 2 ∆ on the blockchain
• Then you can try ith Block proof, making i + ∆ Quality the biggest. Based on linear
summation calculated Quality , according to the above attack method, it will result in an
m
attacker having
times chance to get bigger Quality .
2
• By redeﬁning the blockchain Quality, the gains from this attack can be reduced. The
calculation of Quality is changed from linear superposition to multiplication
• Under this deﬁnition, the probability increase obtained by the attacker will be reduced
to log(m) . At the same time, let the challenge of continuous ∆ Block be determined by
the same block, which will further reduce the impact of the attack.

3.4.3 Transaction
BHD transaction structure is the same as Bitcoin , that is, UTXO to UTXO 's chain . This
type of transaction design has also been available for many years, and it is also an
effective way to achieve its basic properties.

28

4. Tech Roadmap
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

August 3, 2018: The BHD genesis block was mined. it initiated a new mining
method, and ﬁrst month of unconditional storage mining.
Sep 4, 2018: BHD started conditional PoC experiment.
when the whole network computing power enters a positive growth cycle, adds
elastic economic model according to the community consensus
Capacity size reaches 3000 peta bytes, implements zero knowledge function,
improves TPS.
Capacity size reaches 6000 peta bytes, upgrades PoC consensus
Capacity size reaches 10000 peta bytes, builds the stable currency system using
capacity as standard, services for the application layer

BHD is committed to becoming a high value ﬁnancial system that changes the way crypto
currencies are produced.
29

