BlackCoin’s Proof-of-Stake Protocol v2
Pavel Vasin
www.blackcoin.co
Abstract—The current Proof of Stake protocol has several
potential security issues: coin age can be abused by malicious
nodes to gain significant network weight to perform a successful
double spend. Additionally, due to coin age, honest nodes can
abuse the system by staking only on a periodical basis. This
does not secure the network. Lastly: in the current system all
components of a stake of proof are predictable enough to allow
pre-computation of future proof-of-stakes. In this paper a system
is proposed to solve said issues.

I.

I NTRODUCTION

Currently in the crypto currency community it is common
understanding that Proof-of-Stake has yet to prove its security,
economic value, and overall energy efficiency over time.
BlackCoin was originally created as an experiment to prove
that the concept of Proof-Of-Stake is valid; insisting it has real
world applications in the future of crypto currencies. For the
past 120 days BlackCoin has proven to be a secure system for
the 15-20 million dollars market cap that the system currently
proudly maintains. As we expect the BlackCoin ecosystem
to grow in the future, we want to ensure that the Proof-ofStake system is as secure as it can be. This is why we will
be introducing PoS Protocol v2.0, also known as PoS 2.0. In
the future we will continue to expand and reinforce the new
system to ensure that attack vectors get closed before they can
be abused maliciously.
This paper is organized as follows. Section II explains
the benefits of the Proof-of-Stake concept. In Section III we
describe the flaws of the current implementation which are
then addressed in Section IV. Finally we give a summary in
Section V.
II.

P ROOF - OF -S TAKE

Consensus in a decentralized digital currency like Bitcoin
[1] is achieved by requiring generated blocks to contain a proof
that the node which generated the block solved a computational
hard task. Unfortunately the concept of the Proof-of-Work
(PoW) based system tends to lean towards eventual selfdestruction [2].
Proof-of-stake (PoS) aims to replace the way of achieving
consensus in a distributed system; instead of solving the Proofof-Work, the node which generates a block has to provide a
proof that it has access to a certain amount of coins before
being accepted by the network. Generating a block involves
sending coins to oneself, which proves the ownership. The
required amount of coins (also called target) is specified by
the network through a difficulty adjustment process similar to
PoW that ensures an approximate, constant block time.
As in PoW, the block generation process will be rewarded
through transaction fees and a supply model specified by the
underlying protocol; which can also be seen as interest rate by

common definition. The initial distribution of the currency is
usually obtained through a period of PoW mining.
A. Related work
The first PoS based currency was PeerCoin [3] which is
still in a period of PoW mining. Further development of the
PeerCoin PoS protocol lead to NovaCoin [4] which uses a
hybrid PoS / PoW system.
BlackCoin is the first crypto currency that uses a pure PoS
based protocol which is based on the development of the above
described projects.
III.

S ECURITY I SSUES IN P O S

Besides the clear advantage of PoS over PoW as a method
used to establish consensus on the network, there exist problems that have yet to be solved that can greatly improve
network security.
A. Coin Age
In the PeerCoin protocol block generation is based on coin
age which is a factor that increases the weight of unspent coins
linearly over time; the proof that has to be provided together
with a new block and has to satisfy the following condition:
proofhash < coins · age ·target
| {z }

(1)

coin age

The proof hash corresponds to the hash of an obfuscation
sum that depends on a stake modifier, the unspent output, and
the current time.
With this system it is possible for an attacker to save up
enough coin age to become the node with the highest weight
on the network. If the attack were to be malicious the attacker
could then fork the blockchain and perform a double-spend.
After this is done however, a second double-spend would
require the attacker to save up coin age again, as the stake
resets when the block was generated.
It is worth mentioning that this situation is highly improbable and that the incentive is questionable (saving enough coin
age to be the highest weight on the network would either take
a lot of time or a lot of coins, and thus money, to make
this happen. Next to that, performing such an attack would
probably devalue the system itself so it wouldn’t be profitable
to do the attack in the long run.)
Another problem with coin age are greedy honest nodes.
These are nodes that have no malicious intent but they keep
their coins off the network and only stake every once in a
while to get their stake reward. The current system actually

encourages abusive behaviour of these nodes by keeping their
node offline until it accumulates enough coin age to get the
reward in a short period of time and then shut down the node
again.

Bitcoin
Past limit:
Future limit:
Granularity:
Expected block time:

median time of last 11 blocks
+2 hours
1 second
10 minutes

Blackcoin
Past limit:
Future limit:
Granularity:
Expected block time:

(New rules)
time of last block
+15 seconds
16 seconds
64 seconds

B. Blockchain Precomputation and Long Range Attacks
At the time of writing of this paper there is no known solution for secure timestamping in a largely distributed network.
The current block timestamp rules give an attacker a degree
of freedom in choosing the proof hash described in Eq. 1 and
therefore increase the probability of a successful attempt to
fork from several blocks in the past.
In addition, the current stake modifier doesn’t obfuscate the
hash function enough to prevent the attacker from precomputing future proofs. An individual who is seeking to maliciously
attack the network would therefore be able to calculate the
next interval for the future proof-of-stake solutions, allowing
that individual to generate a few blocks in a row and execute
a malicious attack that could harm the network.
IV.

C HANGES IN THE P ROTOCOL

In the following we will describe the changes in the
BlackCoin protocol that address the problems described in the
previous section.

D. Hash Function
The original NovaCoin protocol called for the use of
”Scrypt” [5] as its Proof-Of-Work; also being used as the
block hash. However there are some issues with that previous
implementation. Using Scrypt offers no real advantage to
Proof-Of-Stake; and is far slower than some alternatives. Since
BlackCoin is no longer in PoW phase, the only major change
would have to occur in the algorithm for determining the block
hash. Therefore the block hash has been changed back to
SHA256d. To reflect this the block version has been increased
to version 7.
V.

A. Taking the Coin Age out of the equation.
The most secure way to perform a Proof of Stake system is
by having as many nodes online as possible. The more nodes
that are staking, the less possibility for security issues like
51% attacks, and the faster the actual network will perform
transactions through these nodes.
Thus, taking out the coin age will require all nodes to be
online more to get their stake reward. Saving up coin age is
no longer a possibility with the new system that calculates the
chance of staking as follows:
proofhash < coins · target

(2)

The proposed changes are intended to improve security in
BlackCoin’s PoS protocol and were made with optimization
in mind. With the new protocol possible attack vectors are
reduced to a minimum and the incentive to support the network
by having a full node running continuously is clearly increased.
This will allow BlackCoin and PoS to continue to scale for
mass adoption while plugging and mitigating potential risks.
VI.

R EFERENCES
[1]

B. Changing the Stake Modifier

[2]

In order to mitigate the possibility of the pre-computation
attack, the stake modifier will be changed at every modifier
interval – to better obfuscate any calculations that would be
made to pinpoint the time for the next proof-of-stake.

[3]

Appropriate changes have been made to the block timestamps to work more efficiently with PoS. The expected block
time was increased from original 60 seconds to match the
granularity. Note that it is assumed that nodes have an external
source of time, and if the internal time of a node deviates too
much from the general consensus then there is a high probability that blocks generated by this node will get orphaned.
The proposed changes below outline the modifications to the
block timestamp rules.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Many thanks to Rob ’Soepkip’ Schins, Maarten Visser,
Steven ’McKie’ McKie, and Patrick Doetsch for helping out
with the write up of the protocol v2 changes.

Note that the system in Eq. 2 will not change the actual
stake reward.

C. Block Timestamp Rules

S UMMARY

[4]
[5]

Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system.
bitcoin.org, 2008.
Nicolas T. Courtois. On the longest chain rule and programmed selfdestruction of crypto currencies, 2014.
Sunny King and Scott Nadal. Ppcoin: Peer-to-peer crypto-currency with
proof-of-stake. peercoin.net, 2013.
NovaCoin. http://coinwiki.info/en/novacoin.
Scrypt proof of work. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/scrypt proof of work.

