Issue Date

31/10/2017

WHITE PAPER
BLOCKMESH

© Prometheus Industries Pty Ltd. Registered in the Republic of
South Africa as a company 2016/254313/07
All rights reserved.

TABLE OF
CONTENTS
An Introduction

04

The Company

07

Understanding the Technology

09

Mining The BlockMesh

15

What is BlockMesh now?

16

Mesh Datagram Protocol (MDP)

17

BlockMesh MeshEx

18

Primary Goals

19

Future Goals

20

Token Implementation

21

The Team

22

Our Partners

23

Roadmap

24

Page 004

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

AN
INTRODUCTION

Chris Fabian

OUR PHILOSOPHY

Co-lead of UNICEF’s Innovation Lab.
Connect people via a self-sustaining network that has
“Technology has the potential to lift people out of

the ability to reward participation. Our methodology

poverty. All signs point to the developing world

is to enable this change by running an efficient com-

skipping past the eras of landlines and desktop

mercial business model.

computers and going straight to mobile. That
potential for two-way communication is changing
the face of international development. For the first
time ever, we’re able to have a clear line to people

Mobile telephony providers have implemented a very

who are in the middle of nowhere to give them a

aggressive diffusion strategy for mobile networks,

sense of a future, information, opportunity and

especially throughout Africa. The aggressive mobile

choice.” 1

telephony strategy has increased its market share,
adoption of smart technology and infrastructure. Our

1

Consumer Technology Association https://www.cta.tech/News/

Blog/Articles/2015/July/How-Mobile-Phones-Are-Changing-the-Developing-Worl.aspx 2

technology relies on the adoption and market share
characteristics, not infrastructure.

Page 005

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

The global population is estimated at 7.8 Billion people 2 , it is also estimated that
60% have no access to internet across the globe 3.

ABOUT 4 BILLION NON-USERS

Affordability

Infrastructure

Local adoption & use

13%

29%

31%

80%

95%

of people live
below the
international
poverty line. 2

Number of countries
where broadband is

of people live
outside of 3G
coverage. 1

of online content is
only available in 1 of
10 languages, which
only about three
people speak as
their first.

of survey
participants in 12
developed and
developing countries have used
online government
services.

of the population
once household
incomes are taken
into account. 3

Most recently available figures used : World Bank, 2015, UNESCO Adult and Youth Literacy , 2015,

2 ITU, 2015 estimate,

World Bank, 2014, BCG, 2014

2

United Nations Population Division https://esa.un.org/unpd/wpp/

3

World Economic Forum https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2016/02/4-reasons-4-billion-people-are-still-offline/

Page 006

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

WHO PAYS THE MOST NOW?

Whilst there is a large disparity between individuals who

Mobile telephony technology, smart phones and its large

own smartphones and those that have data enabled mobile

adoption is the backbone to support 3G, Bluetooth, Wire-

technology, the trend seems to be moving towards acces-

less and tethering technology linked via mesh networks.

sible economical technology that is affordable to lower
income earners.

Our objective is to empower users with a smart device to
be enabled to at their choosing, receive encrypted data

Targeting the largest customer base is a sound business

from a recipient whom will collect the data then relay it

model, however it is not assisting in development especially

along the mesh network until received by the designated

when the fees charged are not proportionate to the user’s

recipient.

ability to earn, work and pay for those costs.
The mesh network route will then be rewarded for data
passed on. This will mine our “Mesh Token” which then can
Our ICO allows the deployment of a platform including

also be used to pay peer to peer via our wallet. The token

application to solve this problem.

itself will be developed on the Ethereum network.

A mesh network is a network topology in which each node relays data for the network. All mesh
nodes cooperate in the distribution of data in the network. It can be applied to both wired and
wireless networks 4. Wireless mesh networks can be considered a type of Wireless ad-hoc network.
The means of operation of a mesh network is very similar in composition to how humanity communicates. In its purest form of course...

4

Wikipedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesh_networking/

Page 007

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

THE
COMPANY
Introduction
Blockchain technology has introduced the world to decentralisation whilst easing access to markets and trade. As
worldwide adoption becomes a reality we are excited to be
part of this positive change, through providing access to all
these resources through established interfaces.

It is our belief that if we remove the barriers of access to
networks and connectivity, it will empower the world, alleviate poverty and enlighten us as part of the global village.

Meet BlockMesh through
Prometheus
We are first and foremost a business, secondly an organisation that exists to improve lives and break barriers
to communicating. It is our belief we cannot affect great
change without being a successful business model first.
Our methodology is to implement best management and

current-centralised communication ecosystem operates.

industry leading practices in the pursuit of creating value.

Our understanding and development utilising Blockchain
has solved our challenge of compelling individuals to

BlockMesh started as a mesh network solution provider in

support the Mesh network, the reward function will utilise

October 2015. This has enabled us to develop a solution in

Blockchain technology via a cryptocurrency in order to

the market which could revolutionise the way the

reward supporting the network.

Page 008

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

We are first and foremost a
business, secondly an organisation that exists to improve
lives and break barriers to communicating.

30+

100+

Years Experience

CSR Opportunities

Q1

+

ICO

Decentralised

Page 009

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

UNDERSTANDING
THE TECHNOLOGY
What is a Mesh network,
not to be confused with the
BlockMesh network?

Challenges of
Mesh technology?

A mesh network is a group of devices communicating and

Our team include some of the forefront research and

passing information from one device to another in

development professionals on the planet. BlockMesh

sequence till the intended recipient is reached.

understands the complexities of the problem we are
solving. We plan to solve these with our flexible platform.

Function of BlockMesh
technology

BlockMesh and the
INTERNET OF THINGS

We have created an efficient Peer to Peer mesh, anony-

The Internet of things (IoT) is the network of physical devic-

mous, decentralised, communications Platform.

es, vehicles, and other items embedded with electronics,

This information will be encrypted, end to end. Mesh

software, sensors, actuators, and network connectivity

networks relay data and messages using an ad-hoc system

which enable these objects to collect and exchange.5

with partial mesh configuration. Data is propagated along
a path by hopping from node to node until it reaches

According to research there will be nearly 20.4 billion

its destination. To ensure that all its paths are available,

devices on the Internet of things by 2020. 6 BlockMesh’s

the network must allow for continuous connections and

aim is to create a global platform to mesh and channel the

must reconfigure itself autonomously around broken

IOT expansion, so each device would not require internet

paths, using self-healing algorithms such as Shortest Path

access. Data can be channelled via the mesh to prevent

Bridging. Self-healing allows a routing-based network to

latency issues and deterioration of bandwidth.

operate when a node breaks down or when a connection
becomes unreliable. As a result, the network is self-reliable.
The denser the population the more robust the mesh will

5

be. Wi-Fi routers and boosters will further strengthen the
network and increase range.

Wikipedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_
things#cite_note-Linux_Things-1

6

Gartner https://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/3598917

Page 0010

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

This will also correct the issue of IOT devices needing to be

to send messages and data if there isn’t a strong enough

within Wi-Fi ranges. Data can travel outside of the hotspot

mesh network available nearby.

range via the mesh platform utilising wireless hardware
embedded in other devices until an internet connection can

The app can be set to use the BlockMesh network as a

be secured.

primary setting and normal cellular data as a secondary
option.

Each IOT device will receive a wallet address and earn Mesh
Tokens for supporting the offline network and be able to

The user will also earn Mesh Tokens for every MB of data

pay other devices for internet access creating a profitable

that passes through their mobile device while using the

sustainable shared network.

app.

The BlockMesh network allows users to send data and

The user can then use the earned Mesh Tokens to spend as

messages through Bluetooth instead of Wi-Fi and cell

a cryptocurrency or to buy mobile data in any Mesh hotspot

towers, so, it’s essentially cost-free. However, our users can

at a fraction of the price of typical cellular data.

also use the BlockMesh app with their normal cellular data

Page 0011

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

The BlockMesh Platform

MeshDEV

The BlockMesh platform is a platform supporting mesh

Mesh will deliver a platform where our open source code

based devices focusing on communication and the IoT. Our

that will allow developers to create apps and custom solu-

platform will provide the user the ability to communicate

tions on the platform to take advantage of data free data

and digitally transact in the peer to peer network, crushing

transfers. There is a small fee dependant on data volume

data costs and banking fees. We aim to create a self-sus-

payable in Mesh Token.

tainable financial ecosystem for communication and IoT.

MeshEX
Users and IoT devices can earn “Mesh Token” for supporting the network and pay in “Mesh Token” for access

MeshEX is our custom Wi-Fi routers which will support and

to conventional internet at a fraction of the cost. Users

increase the network (BlockMesh mining). Users utilising

with unlimited Wi-Fi can offer their community or clients

the routers in homes or in their small business will be

internet access with no passwords needed. With “mesh”

rewarded for each MB support on the DATA free mesh

the internet connection can then be passed beyond the

network via the hotspot created. Users can also offer

hardware range.

internet connections to the mesh passing the connection
far beyond the hardware hotspot limitations. Users wanting

Our goal is to become the leaders in mesh technology

conventional internet with in MeshEX range will be charged

reinvesting in the technology and creating a platform where

in Mesh Token per megabyte. Converting an uncapped

any developer can take advantage of our network with our

internet line from an expense to a value generation tool.

simple open source API.

Page 0012

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

MeshAD advertising
MeshAD will be a revolutionary advertising platform where

Example- A shoe store in a mall can purchase MeshAD

small and large businesses can purchase packages to

packages with defined criteria (Female, 30-40 Years Old,

advertise along the mesh. Most advertising packages online

Clothing) then apply the amount of “Links” in the mesh to

are gender and age driven within a set location. MeshAD is

be tripped. “Links” are the amount of devices the MeshAD

developed on clients’ interests and hobbies with advanced

with travel increasing range. This give the retailers the

“Location Trip advertising”.

opportunity to directly advertise/issue coupon to clients
within the vicinity. Increasing value for advertising and
reaching clients on your doorstep. Clients are only charged
for each received Advert.

Page 0013

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

Security
A large focus of ours is security. It is our view that the

Mesh Datagram Protocol (MDP) natively supports unsigned

security of the data moving through the mesh requires

clear, signed clear, and signed encrypted payloads using

industry leading encryption. This is a non-negotiable aspect

the destination and origin BlockMesh Identity (SID)s as

of the technology and our business. Our understanding of

keys;

efficient encryption technologies is developed, however we
will incorporate specialists that can ensure we remain at

The routing protocol uses randomly generated BlockMesh

the forefront of encryption technology.

Identity (SID)s, not MAC or IMSI device addresses, making it
difficult for eavesdroppers to link a person to a handset;

Our relationship with leading anti-malware providers allows
us to deliver anti malware and anti-virus leading technol-

Rhizome uses a strong hash (digest) algorithm to prevent

ogies through our application. Our vision is to secure all

tampering with the contents of files that it distributes;

facets of our code to ensure a robust platform to communicate, transact and store value.

Rhizome uses cryptographic signatures on all manifests to
prevent tampering with file meta data and identity;

The security framework developed uses the Elliptic Curve
crypto system to provide authentication and digital signing,

Rhizome can encrypt its payloads (independently of MDP

data encryption and decryption, and identity management

encryption);

for the Mesh network.
Rhizome allows anonymous and fully deniable authorship.
The main parts of the security framework are:

The per-device Keyring file contains encrypted secret keys
for many identities, each identity unlocked with its own
PIN (pass-phrase), and every identity deniable while not
unlocked;

Mesh Datagram Protocol (MDP) uses elliptic curve public
keys as its network address space, so once a subscriber is
known, it is trivially easy to send encrypted traffic to him/
her, and straightforward to perform key exchange for
secure sessions;

Page 0014

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

Liquidity on Bancor

Coin Breakdown

Smart-tokens provide a simple and powerful building block

Total Market Cap = 2 Billion

for implementing new types of monetary models, applica-

Total ICO = 220 Million Tokens ($0.05)

tions and value networks such as local currencies, project
tokens, decentralized index funds and much more.

50 % Mining

25% Future Development & Mainstream Adoption

4.9% BlockMesh Founders

1% Pre ICO

5% Reward Air Drop

4.1% Service Providers

10% ICO

Page 0015

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

MINING
THE BLOCKMESH
“Mining” BlockMesh through
Proof of Network
Reward systems are an integral part of ensuring the BlockMesh network grows, it also ensures we create an environment
where all involved benefit from supporting the network. Mining rewards will be distributed over 10 years and calculated per
MB passed along the mesh.* Capped on personal usage at 1.8 GB’s per month. This is to deter close looping.

Reward Airdrop
3 times a year for 1 year. This is to reward “hodling”.

MOBILE MESH USERS

HOTSPOT USERS

Users with the app on their mobile device

Users with Wi-Fi routers or boosters can now

will be rewarded data sent via the app. The

convert an expense to a value producing asset.

user will only need to use the app for free or

Earning mesh token by providing internet to

paid communication services. Users using the

the mesh and increasing the mesh range and

app for communication via the mesh will be

stability. Custom Wi-Fi routers and software

charged zero data fees and still earn mesh

available on the website.

token just for having the app active on their
phone supporting the network.

Page 0016

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

WHAT IS BLOCKMESH
NOW?
It is a free and open-source app for Android 2.2 “Froyo” and later, under continuous development.

The official release of the BlockMesh app will be freely available from Google Play initially as we believe the target market
we intend to saturate operates on the Android operating system.

BlockMesh allows people to make voice communication, send text messages and share files with other BlockMesh users,
without requiring infrastructure like satellites, cell phone towers, Wi-Fi hot spots, or radio repeaters.

BlockMesh can use the Wi-Fi capabilities built into Android to connect with other devices within range. This requires a
nearby Access Point, or turning on the portable HotSpot feature of one device. On some device’s BlockMesh can use Ad Hoc
mode to communicate directly with other devices within range, allowing communications to be easily relayed over multiple
hops. To do so requires root permission on the Android device.

Page 0017

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

MESH DATAGRAM
PROTOCOL (MDP)
MDP has been designed for use in a wireless mesh net-

• MDP does not guarantee packet delivery or preserve

work, in which nodes may move and connections may be

packet order. MDP may deliver duplicate copies of packets.

intermittent or of highly variable quality. MDP is unrelated

It is up to the MDP client applications using higher level

to the Internet Protocol, although it copies some concepts

protocols layered over MDP to detect duplicate and deal

such as port numbers. The main characteristics of MDP are:

with lost and out-of-order packets.

• Every address, also known as a BlockMesh Identity (SID), is

• MDP uses per-hop retransmission to solve the cumulative

a 256-bit public key in the Elliptic Curve crypto system used

end-to-end packet loss that can plague wireless networks.

by the BlockMesh application. The Security Framework

(To carry a packet over N hops, where each hop has a

describes this approach in more detail.

probability P of dropping a packet due to interference or
collision, the end-to-end loss is 1-(1-P)N. For example, given

• Every node device may have one address (Device Identifi-

a per-hop packet loss of 10%, a five hop route has a net

cation (SID)) or many, which it creates itself using random

packet loss of 41%, and a ten hop route 75 %.) The retrans-

key generation. The large size of the key space means that

mission scheme does not attempt to be perfect – it does

the probability of two devices having the same address

not guarantee zero packet loss and can produce duplicate

remains negligible, even if the mesh grows to billions of

packets – but it can restore a practically unusable route

devices.

to highly usable, independently of the route length, at the
expense of higher latency, some packet re-ordering, and

• The payload of every MDP packet may be clear text,

some duplicate packets.

signed, or encrypted and signed. (Encrypted but not signed
is not currently an option, but future advances in the NaCl

• Every packet has a source and destination MDP port

crypto library may make this possible.) The encryption key

number, which are completely unrelated to Internet port

is the public key (address) of the recipient, and the signing

numbers. In encrypted packets, these port numbers are

key is the private key of the sender.

part of the encrypted payload, which makes it harder for an
eavesdropper to guess the purpose of the packet.

• MDP is an OSI Level 3 (Network) layer, and may be carried
over any wireless or wired data link, whether over a shared
medium (eg, CSMA/CA used in Wi-Fi) or a dedicated medium (eg, AX.25 packet radio, serial cable).

Page 0018

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

BLOCKMESH
MESHEX
The BlockMesh Mesh Extender is a hardware device that

• Interface to Codan/Barrett HF Radios for very-long-range

helps other devices to join and participate in a BlockMesh

communications links. (support for other radios is also

Mesh network.

possible)

Second-Generation Mesh Extenders:

• provides a standard Wi-Fi Access Point for nearby devices
(such as smart phones) that do not support Ad Hoc Wi-Fi

• Powered by external USB, 12v/24v automotive

mode.

and/or solar. (with MTTP tracking charge controller)
• Offers the BlockMesh (app for Android) app for Android
• Integrated LiFEPO4/LiIon/Sealed-Lead-Acid battery charger

for download via HTTP so that people can join the Mesh
network without having previously installed the app.

• Custom-designed injection-moulded housing.
• Acts as a Rhizome node, storing and forwarding files and
• Designed to meet IP66 environmental resistance.

MeshMS messages

• Integrated “Mesh of Things”/“Internet of Things” I/O port

• Fully interoperable with first generation Mesh Extenders

• MicroSD card for bulk storage. (reduced power
consumption versus USB)

• Wi-Fi access point (for devices to connect) and ad-hoc
Wi-Fi. (between Mesh Extenders)

• RFD900/RFD868 UHF packet radio. (up to 4km range l
ine-of-sight, ~200m indoors)

Page 0019

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

PRIMARY GOALS FOR
BLOCKMESH
BlockMesh is a young company with large aspirations.
It is our ambition to deliver the below medium goals after ICO:

01
02
03
04

Create a Cryptocurrency “Mesh Token” that will become the “Reward” token for users who
support the network.

This token will be listed on exchanges for cross platform trading.

Large scale deployment of network hubs to initially support network.

Crisis and Disaster communication redundancy for locations they are supported.

Page 0020

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

FUTURE GOALS FOR
BLOCKMESH

01
02
03
04

Hosting MOOC educational repositories that live on the mesh network allowing users to locally download and store educational material not reliant on data costs for access to content.

Subscription services for hosting stores and marketplaces.

Debit card linked to our token and wallet.

Trip mesh advertising.

Page 0021

TOKEN
IMPLEMENTATION

Tokens will be given as a reward for launching
and supporting the BlockMesh network.

Peer to peer payments.

In app purchases.

Traded on global Cryptocurrency exchanges.

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

Page 0022

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

THE
TEAM
Bjorn Dingemans

Jaap Griessel

Founder

ICT Advisor (IBM, Computer Associates, Dimension Data)

Tyron Caithness

Mike Weetman

Head of Financial

Advisor (Former CFO of Yahoo and DreamWorks USA)

Dr Paul Gardner Stephen

Jason Griessel

Head of Research

Head of Business Development

Matthew Schulz

Wesley Billet

Head of Digital Operations

Head of Marketing

Anjé Hoogervorst

Kevin Dunbar

Digital Analyst

Head of Design

Gareth Stuurman

Christopher Underwood

Android Developer

Digital Analyst

Eureka Zandberg
Legal Counsel

Page 0023

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

OUR
PARTNERS
BANCOR
Mesh is proud to have partnered with Bancor, it is our belief that without
Bancor’s technology implemented into future projects the Token ecosystem on DLT will not grow exponentially.

More to be announced.

Page 0024

BlockMesh White Paper 2017

OUR
ROADMAP
ROAD MAP
01

1st Quarter 2018 ICO Listing

02

2nd Quarter 2018 token distribution via web wallet and exchange listing

03

4th Quarter 2018 Mobile app android and iPhone- Mesh hotspot reward roll out

04

1st Quarter 2019 in app Marketplace

Currency Structure
Ethereum ERC20 token
Purchase methods accepted: BTC and ETH

By reading or taking part in our ICO you agree to our T’s & C’s. Click Here to view T’s & C’s

On time

