BTSE Token
For use on BTSE Trading Platforms
2020.03.06

Note:
BTSE TOKENS WILL NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD TO PROHIBITED
PERSONS OR THOSE OPERATING IN PROHIBITED JURISDICTIONS, AS
OUTLINED IN THE IMPORTANT CONSIDERATIONS SECTION BEGINNING
ON PAGE 1 OF THIS DOCUMENT. THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED FOR
INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY
BY THE TERMS INCLUDED IN A SEPARATE TOKEN PURCHASE
AGREEMENT PROVIDED BY BTSE.

IMPORTANT CONSIDERATIONS:
This document is for informational purposes only and is not intended to be legally
binding. You shall consult your professional advisers and carefully review and
consider your decision on the purchase of BTSE tokens in light of, amongst others,
the disclaimer section provided in this document. Information contained within this
document is confidential, and by accepting delivery of this document you agree to
keep confidential all information contained herein. Nothing contained within this
document shall be deemed to constitute a solicitation for investment, nor does any
information represented in any way an offering or a solicitation to purchase any
securities in any jurisdiction.
The information contained within this document does not in any way constitute a
recommendation by any persons to purchase BTSE tokens or any other cryptographic
token, currency, or other digital asset. BTSE is not authorized to provide financial
recommendations, and has not authorized any persons to make any recommendations
on their behalf.
This document is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person
or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in the United States of America,
Belarus, Cuba, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Syria and Venezuela (each a “Prohibited
Jurisdiction”) or any member of the Sanctions List (collectively, the “Prohibited
Persons”).
It is the purchaser's responsibility to assess whether they are able to purchase BTSE
tokens, pursuant to laws applicable to such purchaser, and to confirm whether such
purchaser is not a Prohibited Person. No registration or other action has been or will
be taken in any jurisdiction that would, or is intended to, permit the sale of BTSE
tokens in any country or jurisdiction where registration or other action for that
purpose is required. Accordingly, purchasers expressly indemnify BTSE from any
legal consequences and/or claims for damages whatsoever, arising from the
purchaser’s inability to accurately assess their ability to participate in the purchase
BTSE tokens.
BTSE makes no claims or representation as to the legality of a purchase of BTSE
tokens by such purchaser under the laws applicable to such purchaser.
BTSE tokens are a speculative financial opportunity and involve a high degree of risk
and uncertainty, which are described in more detail in the Disclaimer portion of this
white paper. It is possible that due to external factors outside the control of the BTSE
that the BTSE Tokens may hold little worth or value. As such, the sale of BTSE
tokens is aimed solely at persons who have sufficient knowledge and understanding
of cryptographic tokens, cryptocurrency, and other digital assets, smart contracts,
secure storage mechanisms and digital asset wallet technology, blockchain-based
software systems and blockchain or distributed ledger technology, in order to be able

to evaluate the risks and merits of a purchase of BTSE tokens. Purchasers with
sufficient knowledge should be able to assess and bear the risks of a purchase of
BTSE tokens, including a potential loss of all amounts paid and loss of BTSE tokens
purchased.
Potential purchasers must make their own independent assessment as to whether
BTSE tokens are a suitable opportunity for their risk profile, and should consult with
their relevant advisor[s] in order to evaluate the economic, legal and tax
consequences of purchase BTSE tokens.
Statements in this document may be considered forward-looking in nature or speak to
future plans, events or projects. Such forward-looking statements or information
outlined within this document involve both known and unknown risks and
uncertainties, which may cause actual events to differ substantially. Potential
purchasers should not rely on any forward-looking statements or information in
assessing the potential purchase or future performance of BTSE tokens.
This document is provided only to select persons, and not through any general public
solicitation or general public advertising. If you have received this document, you
may not, and are not authorized to, deliver or disclose the information contained
herein. No person is authorized to provide any information or to make any
representation not contained in this document. No person or entity other than BTSE
Holdings Limited is authorized to sell, resell, or distribute BTSE tokens. Purchasers
of BTSE tokens from any entity or person other than the Issuer are not entitled to rely
statements or information contained within this document.
The purchase of BTSE tokens entails risks and purchasers may lose their entire
purchase amount. BTSE makes no claims as to the future performance of these
tokens or any potential return on investment. Token purchasers should evaluate this
opportunity with relevant trusted advisor[s] to determine whether this opportunity fits
within their risk profile.

Abstract
BTSE operates virtual currency trading platforms. This white paper introduces the
BTSE utility token, for use on the BTSE trading platforms. The BTSE utility token
provides a unique opportunity for existing BTSE users and those who wish to use
BTSE’s platforms and services.
This document seeks to explain the details of the BTSE utility token offering.

Introduction
BTSE is a multi-currency spot and futures trading platform custom-built and is
designed to bring efficiency and stability to the cryptocurrency trading landscape
today.
Through a number of technical key innovations, BTSE tackles some of the areas
traders value the most: BTSE’s next-generation matching engine runs purely in
memory without the need for a database, enabling sub-millisecond transactions and
significantly reducing the risk for system overloads. Horizontal scaling allows BTSE
to upgrade with near-zero downtime. And the entire exchange is self-hosted – an
impactful security and performance advantage.
BTSE’s team is filled with elite institutional experience in finance, technology,
ventures building, and the development of high-volume trading systems. BTSE’s
founding members come from backgrounds including Goldman Sachs, Cisco and
IBM.

Why BTSE?
Our Vision
BTSE has developed what we call Futures 2.0, an upgrade from crypto futures
trading as we know it today.
Cryptocurrency futures trading is becoming increasingly popular, with the largest
trading platforms reporting 30% quarterly user growth - yet compared to the global
futures market, it’s still tiny with lots of room to grow. But there is a gap between the
needs of retail users and what current exchange platforms offer:
- Inefficient UI
- Forcing users to trade in crypto only
- Platforms are often unreliable (downtime & overload)
As a trader, you can post margin and settle in any combination of fiat and
cryptocurrencies; this aggregates the liquidity of several assets and markets; it also
builds a bridge between the crypto and non-crypto futures market - you can trade
cryptocurrency futures without having to hold any cryptocurrencies.
There is a lot of institutional money out there that’s not flowing into the crypto
industry right now due to inefficiencies and lack of on-boarding convenience. By
helping institutional investors and traders get involved, we wish to contribute to the
growth of the Bitcoin and crypto space.

Founding Team
Jonathan Leong, Chief Executive Officer, has more than 20 years of experience
developing high performance, mission-critical systems. Over the past 6 years, he has
built many successful ventures fusing his deep knowledge of technology with
business opportunities. Jonathan believes cryptocurrency will transform the way we
do business, live, work and play. He also runs a venture fund that invests in Fintech
and compelling innovation drivers.
Brian Wong, Co-Founder, has more than 10 years experience in trading and
financial technology. Prior to joining BTSE, he worked at Goldman Sachs and has
built a successful high-speed trading venture that captures inefficiencies in the Asia
financial markets.
Joshua Soh, Chief Operating Officer, brings a wealth of organizational and
operational dexterity gleaned from 24 years in the Infocomm-Media industry. He was
previously General Manager for IBM Global Technology Services before taking the
helm as Managing Director for Singapore & Brunei at Cisco Systems. Before joining
BTSE, Joshua was CEO of a medtech company where he transformed their business
into a managed service model culminating in a private sale.
Yew Chong Quak, Chief Technology Officer, has spent over 10 years in multiple
engineering roles, acquiring a wide breadth of technology experience from building
robust systems infrastructure and networks to agile software development. His
fervour for new technologies and its early adoption brings the best of breed into
BTSE. YC previously held various engineering positions at SingTel and Macquarie
Securities and successfully launched several trading applications.

Platform
BTSE operates a multi-currency fiat-to-cryptocurrency
cryptocurrency spot and derivatives markets.

exchange,

with

Support for Multiple Collateral as Margin
A defining characteristic of the new BTSE Futures platform is its support of fiat and
cryptocurrency as margin collateral. Traders can post margin using a combination of
both fiat and crypto when they trade USD-settled Bitcoin or Tether futures, without
the need to make currency conversions. BTSE supports 8 major fiat currencies,
including USD, EUR, JPY, and GBP, and 6 major cryptocurrencies, including BTC,
ETH, LTC, and USDT.

Linear US Dollar Settled Futures
Although commonplace in the cryptocurrency space, inverse futures contracts, nonlinear in nature, result in a complex mechanism of deriving profit and loss.
Conversely, traditional futures contracts embrace a linear design. Every price
movement of a contract translates directly into profit-and-loss proportionally. BTSE
Futures platform embraces a simple linear design, where profit and loss are settled in
US Dollars. Users can convert profits into native currencies of choice with one click
through platform’s multi-currency spot wallet or purchase USDT using the all in one
order book.
Multiple Currency Futures Settlement
In addition to posting multiple currencies as margin collateral, traders have the option
to settle their trades in the currency of their choice. BTSE currently supports
settlement in BTC, USD, and USDT, regardless of the currency used as collateral.
The Future of Cryptocurrency Derivatives
Cryptocurrency investors can benefit from BTSE’s derivative products for hedging
and speculation. BTSE multi-collateral futures platform bridges the gap between
traditional fiat-based traders and coin holders. Additionally, the multi-currency order
book enables global users to trade in an aggregated order book with thick liquidity.
State of The Art Cyber Security
BTSE regularly engages with penetration and cyber security testers as part of an
ongoing system-wide security audit. Unlike other exchanges that operate on cloud
services, BTSE uses single tenant servers collocated in our own cage with 24/7 DDoS
protection and a state of the art firewall.
Since BTSE is fully self-hosted, we have the flexibility to customize our hardware
and define our internal network architecture for better cyber security and
performance. Data is distributed across multiple data centers, adding redundancy,
additional protection and site reliability.
BTSE uses a combination of cold storage and hot wallet techniques to ensure funds
are held securely, while also providing fast withdrawals to users. Transactions are
made with coin selection algorithms that favor UTXO consolidation and privacy
when possible.
Liquid Network Partnership

BTSE is proud to be a member of Blockstream’s Liquid Network, an inter-exchange
settlement network, and will be one of the first exchanges to integrate Liquid USDT
for deposits and withdrawals.
Liquid allows traders on BTSE to move their funds between different exchanges
without requiring the crypto assets to use their corresponding “base-layer”
blockchain, which allows for quicker confirmation times when moving funds.
High-frequency and algorithmic traders have been limited by long block confirmation
times when attempting cross-exchange trading strategies, but the increased exchange
interoperability offered by Liquid will create deeper liquidity and more efficient price
discovery by allowing traders to exploit arbitrage strategies across different
marketplaces quickly, thereby stabilizing price inefficiencies. Additionally, faster
confirmation times mean that users can store their funds outside of the exchange in a
personal wallet that they control, thereby reducing custodial risk, while still being
able to move funds onto an exchange quickly if and when a trading opportunity
arises.
Additional Blockstream Liquid Network members include Altonomy, Bitbank,
Bitfinex, Bitmax, BitMEX, Bitso, Blue Fire Capital, BTCBOX, Cobo, Coinone,
Coinut, Crypto Garage, DGroup, DMM Japan, FRNT Financial, Gate.io, GOPAX
(operated by Streami), Huobi, L2B Global, OKCoin, OpenNode, Poolin, Prycto,
Sideshift AI, The Rock Trading, SIX Digital Exchange, TaoTao, Tilde, Unocoin,
Xapo, XBTO, and Zaif.
For Retail Crypto Traders
As a trader, you want to know that you’re trading on a platform that’s reliable and
fast and provides sufficient liquidity. You don’t want system overloads, downtime, or
cyber security breaches - which is exactly what major platforms have had to deal with
in recent years, compromising the confidence of traders.
BitMEX customers are familiar with the “Order Submission Error”, which prevents
them from entering or exiting a trade when their systems are overloaded. However,
BTSE’s high-speed matching engine processes up to two million orders per second,
making system overloads a thing of the past.
Bitfinex and Ethfinex require 8+ hours of downtime when maintenance or system
upgrades are being completed, but through horizontal scaling technologies,
BTSE.com runs 24/7 and can do hot upgrades with no performance impact - that
means no more downtimes.

Our multiple data center capacity prevents cyber-attacks effectively. BTSE is fully
self-hosted which gives us the flexibility to customize our hardware and define our
internal network architecture for better cyber security and performance. Multiple data
center redundancy adds additional data protection and site reliability, and close ties
with network partners give us the ability to efficiently manage network routing,
improving the user experience.
On BTSE, you can trade cryptocurrency spot and futures with up to 100x leverage
and freely pick and combine your favorite trading pairs from a variety of fiat and top
cryptocurrencies. You can start trading without limits as soon as you sign up; your ID
verification will give you additional access to BTSE’s multiple fiat on- and offramps.
For Institutional Traders
BTSE is the result of two years of development work on a multi-currency
cryptocurrency spot and derivatives exchange that brings stability and efficiency to
the crypto trading landscape.
Most exchanges are built by utilizing out-of-the-box or open source community
software that is built for general purposes, but exchanges have their own specific
requirements to ensure data consistency, performance, scaling, risk management and
continuous uptime.
BTSE built everything from the ground up, including:
-

Cluster management
Message queuing
Network communication protocol
Replication mechanism
Scalable matching engine
- Highly customizable with support for user bot scripting
- High throughput
- Real-time risk management calculation

Our pursuit at BTSE has always been to introduce the standards of institutional
trading platforms to the cryptocurrency space. Built from scratch by a team with
extensive experience in developing high volume trading systems, BTSE adds some
crucial yet currently missing cyber security and scalability features to the young and
steadily growing cryptocurrency industry.
BTSE offers cryptocurrency spot and futures trading with up to 100x leverage, multiasset collateralization, and allows you to trade cryptocurrency futures with both
crypto and fiat settlement options. Our multi-asset orderbook system provides deeper
liquidity and more efficient price discovery, allowing traders from all parts of the

world, holding different fiat and crypto assets to speculate within a common
orderbook and receive payouts in the asset of their choice.
BTSE has powerful banking relations; as a result, BTSE is able to offer multiple fiat
on- and off-ramps and support for numerous fiat currencies.

For Non-Crypto / Beginner Traders
At BTSE, our ultimate goal is to make the entrance into the crypto trading space
easier and more enjoyable for everyone. We spent two years observing the market
and building a platform that not only fixes the issues of current exchanges, but offers
additional features to set you up for a successful trading experience.
BTSE currently supports the trading of 6 cryptocurrencies in 8 different fiat
currencies, which you can freely combine in your trades. If you want to start trading
without having to hold cryptocurrencies yourself, you can trade Bitcoin and the other
assets available on BTSE with your local currency. Our spot markets provide a
“normal” exchange environment where traders can buy and sell cryptocurrency assets
on BTSE, realizing profits in their local fiat currency and participating in trades
without the full exposure to the asset’s volatility, such as is the experience in
derivative markets.
BTSE also offers you a number of ways to deposit and withdraw funds via unlimited
SWIFT bank transfers and a global P2P marketplace with verified merchants in your
country. This is possible through BTSE’s strong banking relations.
And if you’d rather get started without using real money, you can get acquainted with
the interface and mechanisms on BTSE’s free testnet.

The BTSE Token
The summary below describes the terms, benefits, and utility of BTSE tokens.

Token Specifications
The following text highlights details of the BTSE token, use cases, benefits, and
issuance terms.
Issuance Terms

BTSE tokens will be issued on Blockstream’s Liquid Network using the ticker
symbol “BTSE”. Prospective purchasers should review the issuance terms, as well as
the benefits and use cases.
ISSUER

BTSE Holdings Limited

TOKEN

BTSE, a utility token with the ticker symbol
“BTSE”

PURCHASER ELIGIBILITY

Subject to completion of relevant KYC,
whitelisting and/or restrictions imposed by
BTSE.

PURCHASE PRICE

BTSE tokens will be sold at a rate of $1 or
equivalent, per token. The Issuer accepts
USD and USDT, and other payment
methods at its discretion.

LISTING

BTSE will open a BTSE/USD spot market
for peer-to-peer, open market trading
following the conclusion of the sale of
tokens.

USE OF PROCEEDS

Proceeds may be used for working capital
and general business purposes, including
capital expenditures, operating expenses and

other capitalization activities.
SALES DOCUMENTATION

The purchase and sale of BTSE Tokens shall
be on the Terms and Conditions set forth in
a separate Token Purchase Agreement,
provided by the Issuer.

PRIVATE SALE

The initial private sale is for 50 million
BTSE Tokens will be offered as part of a
private placement only. Any unsold tokens
from this allocation will be burned.

TOKEN DISTRIBUTION

The Issuer will issue up to one hundred
million BTSE tokens. The remaining tokens
after the initial private sale will be vested
over 5.5 years (gradual unlocking begins
after 18 months)..

COMMERCIAL USES

Reductions of fees on the BTSE trading
platform, described more fully herein, as
well as similar fee reductions and benefits
for future BTSE trading platforms, products,
and services.

TAX CONSEQUENCES

Prospective purchasers should consult with
their tax advisors as to the tax consequences
of participating in the distribution and
owning, using, and transacting in BTSE
tokens. We make no claims to the tax
implications of participating in this private
token offering.

Token Utility
BTSE tokens will be the utility token used across BTSE’s trading platforms and
services. Token holders will receive various benefits within BTSE’s trading platform,
products, and services.

Purchase of Colocation Services
Premium colocation services will be made available for high frequency traders. This
allows traders participating in certain strategies to benefit from reduced latency and
stable connectivity.
The purchase of such colocation services will be done exclusively with BTSE
Tokens.
Purchase of Advanced Trading Services
Advanced trading services such as premium data feeds, backtesting platforms,
algorithmic trading systems and a scripting platform will be available for purchase
exclusively with BTSE Tokens.
Purchase of White Label Service
There has been interest in white label services for clients interested in partnering with
BTSE. Any such transaction relating to white label services will be done exclusively
with BTSE Tokens.
Debit Card Benefits
Traders that utilize BTSE virtual banking services can increase their transaction
limits, ATM withdrawal and deposit thresholds based on the value of their BTSE
token holdings.
Token Listings
Companies or projects that list their token on BTSE will be required to pay a token
listing fee. These token listing fees will be paid for exclusively with BTSE Tokens.
Traders on BTSE that are interested in purchasing tokens through an offering can use
their BTSE Tokens to purchase the token being offered.

Token listings will trade using our multi-currency orderbook system, allowing
potential investors to purchase tokens using any combination of fiat and crypto asset,
producing deeper liquidity that will attract more token listings.
Use as Collateral
BTSE tokens can be used as margin collateral when trading futures and other
derivative products. Traders can choose to settle their trades in BTSE tokens or any of
the other settlement currencies available.
Pay for Trading Fees
Users can optionally elect to pay their trading fees, without limits, using BTSE
tokens, so long as the user is holding BTSE tokens.
Increased API Limits
Users can increase their API rate limits based on the amount of BTSE tokens that are
held in their account.
Reduction in Trading Fees
All users holding BTSE tokens in their account will have their taker fees reduced
across all spot and futures markets.
Spot market taker fees will be reduced by an additional amount for traders with a
daily average balance of specified USD in BTSE tokens held in their account during
the previous trading month.
Derivative market taker fees may also be reduced by an additional amount for
dependent on their USD value of BTSE tokens held in their account during the
previous trading month.
Traders also have the option to purchase a VIP fee-tier for 30 days using their BTSE
tokens. Traders will pay an amount of BTSE tokens equal to 75% of the average fees
that would be generated in one month by that tier, in USD equivalent. Once 30 days
have passed, the normal fee schedule will be applied unless the trader chooses to
purchase another fee-tier.
The longer a trader holds their BTSE tokens, the longer they will be able to realize
reduced trading fees. Fee reductions are subject to change in BTSE’s discretion due
to changes in fee schedules or otherwise.
To view BTSE’s current fee table, please visit this website URL:

https://support.btse.com/en/support/solutions/articles/43000064283-what-are-thebtse-trading-feesVIP Tiered Discounts
Traders holding certain amounts of BTSE tokens will automatically be placed into a
corresponding VIP fee-tier.
To view the existing VIP fee-tiers (“levels”), please visit this website URL:
https://support.btse.com/en/support/solutions/articles/43000064283-what-are-thebtse-trading-feesVIP fee-tier placement is based on the USD ($) value of the traders BTSE token
holdings, as outlined in the table below.
BTSE Token Holdings (USD)

VIP Fee-Tier

>= $5,000

VIP I

>= $10,000

VIP II

>= $20,000

VIP III

>= $30,000

VIP IV

>= $50,000

VIP V

>= $75,000

VIP VI

>= $100,000

VIP VII

Account balances to qualify for VIP fee-tier placement are calculated daily at 00:00
(UTC +0) using the average of the prior days holdings.
Traders placed into VIP tiers will continue to receive reduced trading discounts, as
outlined within the “Reduction in Trading Fees” section of this document.
VIP tiers and associated reductions in fees are subject to change in BTSE’s discretion
due to changes in fee schedules or otherwise.
Lockup Period

BTSE Token purchasers will not experience a lockup period on their BTSE token
holdings bought at full price. However, in order to realize the benefits and discounts
associated with the purchase of BTSE Tokens, users must hold the tokens in their
BTSE account.

BTSE tokens retained by BTSE, including any tokens unsold during the private sale
periods, will unlock in increments over a multi year period, as described below.
18 months after the conclusion of the private sale period, 15% of the total number of
BTSE tokens retained by BTSE will unlock linearly over the next 12 months.
30 months after the conclusion of the private sale period, a further 25% of the total
number of BTSE tokens retained by BTSE will unlock linearly over the next 12
months.
42 months after the conclusion of the private sale period, a further 25% of the total
number of BTSE tokens retained by BTSE will unlock linearly over the next 12
months.
54 months after the conclusion of the private sale period, the remaining number of
BTSE tokens retained by BTSE will unlock linearly over the next 12 months.
When the lockup period[s] are complete, BTSE will retain the right to use these
tokens for additional funding through the sale of tokens on the open market.
BTSE Token Market

BTSE will open a BTSE/USD spot market for peer-to-peer, open market trading
following the conclusion of the sale of tokens.

Disclaimer
Please read this entire section carefully. If you are in any doubt as to the action you
should take, please consult your legal, financial, tax or other professional advisor(s).
1.1

Legal Statement
(a)

This document (the “Whitepaper”), in its current form, is circulated for
general information purposes only in relation to the BTSE trading
platforms and applications described in the Whitepaper (the “Platform”)
as presently conceived and is subject to review and revision. Please note
that this Whitepaper is a work in progress and the information in this
Whitepaper is current only as of the date on the cover hereof. Thereafter,
the information, including information concerning BTSE (the
“Company” or “We”) business operations and financial condition may
have changed. We reserve the right to change, modify, add or delete
parts of this Whitepaper or website without notice for any reason or at
any time.

(b)

No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal
commitment in relation to the sale and purchase of BTSE tokens (the
“BTSE Token(s)” or “Token(s)”) and no payment is to be accepted on
the basis of this Whitepaper. Any sale and purchase of the Tokens will be
governed by a legally binding agreement, the details of which will be
made available separately from this Whitepaper. In the event of any
inconsistencies between the abovementioned agreement and this
Whitepaper, the former shall prevail.

(c)

This Whitepaper does not constitute or form part of any opinion on any
advice to sell, or any solicitation of any offer by the
issuer/distributor/vendor of the Tokens to purchase any Token nor shall it
or any part of it nor the fact of its presentation form the basis of, or be
relied upon in connection with, any contract or investment decision.

(d)

The Tokens are not intended to constitute securities, units in a business
trust, or units in a collective investment scheme, each as defined under

the applicable laws in each jurisdiction. Accordingly, this Whitepaper
therefore, does not, and is not intended to, constitute a prospectus,
profile statement, or offer document of any sort, and should not be
construed as an offer of securities of any form, units in a business trust,
units in a collective investment scheme or any other form of investment,
or a solicitation for any form of investment in any jurisdiction.

1.2

(e)

No Token should be construed, interpreted, classified or treated as
enabling, or according any opportunity to, purchasers to participate in or
receive profits, income, or other payments or returns arising from or in
connection with the Platform, the Tokens, or products, or to receive
sums paid out of such profits, income, or other payments or returns.

(f)

This Whitepaper or any part hereof may not be reproduced, distributed
or otherwise disseminated in any jurisdiction where offering
coins/tokens in the manner set out this Whitepaper is regulated or
prohibited.

(g)

No regulatory authority has reviewed, examined or approved of any of
the information set out in this Whitepaper. No such action has been or
will be taken in any jurisdiction.

(h)

Where you wish to purchase any Token, the Tokens are not to be
construed, interpreted, classified or treated as: (a) any kind of currency
other than cryptocurrency; (b) debentures, stocks or shares issued by any
entity; (c) rights, options or derivatives in respect of such debentures,
stocks or shares; (d) rights under a contract for differences or under any
other contract with the purpose or pretended purpose to secure a profit or
avoid a loss; or (e) units or derivatives in a collective investment scheme
or business trust, or any other type of securities.

Restrictions on Distribution and Dissemination
(a)

The distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper or any part thereof
may be prohibited or restricted by the laws or regulatory requirements of
any jurisdiction. In the case where any restriction applies, you are to
inform yourself about, to obtain legal and other relevant advice on, and
to observe, any restrictions which are applicable to your possession of
this Whitepaper or such part thereof (as the case may be) at your own

expense and without liability to the Company or its representatives,
agents, and related companies (the “Affiliates”).
(b)

1.3

1.4

Persons to whom a copy of this Whitepaper has been distributed or
disseminated, provided access to or who otherwise have the Whitepaper
in their possession shall not circulate it to any other persons, reproduce
or otherwise distribute this Whitepaper or any information contained
herein for any purpose whatsoever nor permit or cause the same to
occur.

Disclaimer of Liability
(a)

The Token, the Platform and related services provided by the Company
and its affiliates are provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis. The
Company and its Affiliates do not grant any warranties or make any
representation, express or implied or otherwise, as to the accessibility,
quality, suitability, accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of the Token,
the Platform or any related services provided by the Company and its
Affiliates, and expressly disclaim any liability for errors, delays, or
omissions in, or for any action taken in reliance on, the Token, the
Platform and related services provided by the Company and its
Affiliates.

(b)

The Company, its Affiliates and its directors, officials and employees do
not make or purport to make, and hereby disclaim, any representation,
warranty or undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person,
including any representation, warranty or undertaking in relation to the
truth, accuracy and completeness of any of the information set out in this
Whitepaper.

(c)

To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws and
regulations, the Company and its Affiliates shall not be liable for any
indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in
tort, contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue,
income or profits, and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection
with any acceptance of or reliance on this Whitepaper or any part thereof
by you.

Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements

1.5

(a)

Certain information set forth in this Whitepaper includes forwardlooking information regarding the future of the project, future events and
projections. These statements are not statements of historical fact and
may be identified by but not limited to words and phrases such as “will”,
“estimate”, “believe”, “expect”, project”, “anticipate”, or words of
similar meaning. Such forward-looking statements are also included in
other publicly available materials such as presentations, interviews,
videos etc., information contained in this Whitepaper constitutes
forward-looking statements including but not limited to future results,
performance, or achievements of the Company or its Affiliates.

(b)

The forward-looking statements involve a variety of risks and
uncertainties. These statements are not guarantees of future performance
and no undue reliance should be placed on them. Should any of these
risks or uncertainties materialize, the actual performance and progress of
the Company or its Affiliates might differ from expectations set by the
forward-looking statements. The Company or its Affiliates undertake no
obligation to update forward-looking statements should there be any
change in circumstances. By acting upon forward-looking information
received from this Whitepaper, the Company or its Affiliates’ website
and other materials produced by the Company or its Affiliates, you
personally bear full responsibility in the event where the forwardlooking statements do not materialize.

Potential Risks
By purchasing, holding and using the Tokens, you expressly acknowledge and
assume the risks set out in this section if any of these risks and uncertainties
develops into actual events, the business, financial condition, results of
operations and prospects of the Company or its Affiliates may be materially
and adversely affected. In such cases, you may lose all or part of the value of
the Token. Such risks include but are not limited to the following:
Risks Relating to the Tokens
(a)

There may not be a public or secondary market available for
the Tokens
I.

The Tokens are intended to be native tokens to be used on the
Platform, and the Company and its Affiliates have not and may

not actively facilitate any secondary trading or external trading of
Tokens. In addition, there is and has been no public market for the
Tokens and the Tokens are not traded, whether on any
cryptocurrency exchange or otherwise. In the event that the
Tokens are traded on a cryptocurrency exchange, there is no
assurance that an active or liquid trading market for the Tokens
will develop or if developed, be sustained. There is also no
assurance that the market price of the Tokens will not decline
below the purchase amount paid for the Tokens, which is not
indicative of such market price.
II. Token is not a currency issued by any central bank or national,
supra-national or quasi-national organisation, nor is it backed by
any hard assets or other credit. The Company and its Affiliates are
not responsible for nor do they pursue the circulation and trading
of the Tokens on the market. Trading of the Tokens merely
depends on the consensus on its value between the relevant
market participants, and no one is obliged to acquire any Token
from any holder of the Token, including the purchasers of the
Tokens, nor does anyone guarantee the liquidity or market price of
the Tokens to any extent at any time. Accordingly, the Company
and its Affiliates cannot ensure that there will be any demand or
market for the Tokens, or that the price upon which the Tokens
were purchased is indicative of the market price of the Tokens if
they are made available for trading on a cryptocurrency exchange.
Risks Relating to the Company, its Affiliates and the Platform
(a)

Limited availability of sufficient information

The governance structure, purpose, consensus mechanism, algorithm,
code, infrastructure design and other technical specifications and
parameters of the Platform may be updated and changed frequently
without notice. While this Whitepaper contains the key information
currently available in relation to the Platform, it is subject to
adjustments and updates from time to time, as announced on the
Company’s website. Purchasers will not have full access to all the
information relevant to the Tokens and/or the Platform. Nevertheless, it
is anticipated that significant milestones and progress reports will be
announced on the Company’s website.

(b)

The digital assets raised in the sale of the Tokens are exposed
to the risks of theft.

Whilst the Company and its Affiliates will make every effort to ensure
that any cryptocurrencies received from the sale of Tokens are securely
held through the implementation of security measures, there is no
assurance that there will be no theft of the cryptocurrencies as a result of
hacks, mining attacks, sophisticated cyber-attacks, distributed denials of
service or errors, vulnerabilities or defects on such blockchain addresses,
or any other blockchain, or otherwise. Such events may include, for
example, flaws in programming or source code leading to exploitation or
abuse thereof. In such event, even if the sale of Tokens is completed, the
Company and its Affiliates may not be able to receive the funds raised
and the Company and its Affiliates may not be able to utilize such funds
for the development of the Platform, and the operation of the Platform
might be temporarily or permanently curtailed. As such, the issued
Tokens may hold little worth or value. The Tokens are uninsured, unless
you specifically obtain private insurance to insure them. In the event of
any loss or loss of value of the Tokens, you may have no recourse.
(c)

The blockchain address(es) may be compromised and the
digital assets may not be able to be retrieved.

The blockchain address(es) are designed to be secured. However, in the
event that the blockchain address(es) for the receipt of purchase amounts
or otherwise are, for any reason, compromised (including but not limited
to scenarios of the loss of keys to such blockchain address(es), the funds
held at such blockchain address(es) may not be able to be retrieved and
disbursed, and may be permanently unrecoverable. In such event, even if
the sale of the Tokens is successful, the Company and its Affiliates will
not be able to receive the funds raised and the Company and its
Affiliates will not be able to utilize such funds for the development of
the Platform, and the implementation of the Platform might be
temporarily or permanently curtailed. As such, distributed Tokens may
hold little worth or value.
(d)

There is no assurance of any success of the Platform and the
Company and its Affiliates may cease the development and
operation of the Platform.

I.

The value of, and demand for, the Tokens hinges heavily on the
performance of the Platform. There is no assurance that the
Platform will gain traction and achieve any commercial success.
The Platform may be subject to further changes, updates and
adjustments. Such changes may result in unexpected and
unforeseen effects on its projected appeal to users, and hence
impact its success. There are no guarantees that the process for
creating the Tokens will be uninterrupted or error-free.

II. While the Company has made every effort to provide a realistic
estimate, there is also no assurance that the cryptocurrencies
raised in the sale of Tokens will be sufficient for the development
and integration of the Platform. For the foregoing or any other
reason, the development and integration of the Platform may not
be completed. As such, distributed Tokens may hold little or no
worth or value.
III. Additional reasons which may result in the termination of the
development or operation of the Platform includes, but is not
limited to, (aa) an unfavorable fluctuation in the value of
cryptographic and fiat currencies, (bb) the inability of the
Company and its Affiliates to maintain the Platform or the Tokens’
utility or to resolve technical problems and issues faced in relation
to the development or operation of the Platform or the Token, the
failure of commercial relationships, (cc) intellectual property
disputes during development or operation, and (dd) changes in the
future capital needs of the Company or its Affiliates and the
availability of financing and capital to fund such needs. For the
aforesaid and other reasons, the Platform may no longer be a
viable project and may be dissolved, negatively impacting the
Platform and the potential utility and value of issued Tokens.
(e)

There may be lack of demand for the Platform and the
services provided, which would impact the value of the
Tokens.
I.

There is a risk that there is a lack of interest from consumers,
merchants, advertisers, and other key participants for the Platform
and the services, and that there may be limited interest and
therefore use of the Platform and the Tokens. Such a lack of

interest could impact the operation of the Platform and the uses or
potential value of the Tokens.
II. There is a risk of competition from alternative platforms that may
have been established, or even from existing businesses which
would target any segment of the potential users of the Platform
fulfilling similar demands, e.g. corporations targeting advertisers
seeking purchase consumer data and market analysis. Therefore,
in the event that the competition results in a lack of interest and
demand for the Platform, the services and the Tokens, the
operation of the Platform and Token value may be negatively
impacted.
(f)

The Company and its Affiliates may experience system
failures, unplanned interruptions in its network or services,
hardware or software defects, security breaches or other
causes that could adversely affect the Company or its
Affiliates’ infrastructure network, or the Platform.
I. The Company and its Affiliates are unable to anticipate or detect
when there would be occurrences of hacks, cyber-attacks, mining
attacks (including but not limited to double-spend attacks,
majority mining power attacks and “selfish-mining” attacks),
distributed denials of service or errors, vulnerabilities or defects in
the Platform, the Tokens, or any technology (including but not
limited to smart contract technology) on which the Company, its
Affiliates, the Platform, the Tokens, rely on or any blockchain.
Such events may include, for example, flaws in programming or
source code leading to exploitation or abuse thereof. The
Company and its Affiliates may not be able to detect such issues
in a timely manner, and may not have sufficient resources to
efficiently cope with multiple service incidents happening
simultaneously or in rapid succession.
II. Although the Company and its Affiliates will be taking steps
against malicious attacks on its appliances or its infrastructure,
which are critical for the maintenance of the Platform and its other
services, there can be no assurance that cyber-attacks, such as
distributed denials of service, will not be attempted in the future,
and that any of such security measures will be effective. Any
significant breach of security measures or other disruptions

resulting in a compromise of the usability, stability and security of
the Company and its Affiliates’ network or services, including the
Platform.
Risks Relating to the Participation in the Sale of Tokens
(a)

You may not be able to recover the purchase amount paid for
the Tokens.

Except as provided under any applicable terms of sale or prescribed by
applicable laws and regulations, the Company is not obliged to provide
you with a refund of the purchase amount. No promises of future
performance or price are or will be made in respect to the Tokens,
including promises of inherent value or continuing payments, and there
is no guarantee that the Tokens will hold any particular value. Therefore,
the recovery of the purchase amount may be impossible or may be
subject to applicable laws and regulations.
(b)

You may be subject to adverse legal and/or tax implications as
a result of the purchase, distribution and use of the Tokens.
I.

The legal character of cryptocurrency and cryptographic assets
remain uncertain. There is a risk that the Tokens may be
considered securities in certain jurisdictions, or may be considered
to be securities in certain jurisdictions in the future. The Company
and its Affiliates does not provide any warranty or guarantee as to
how the Tokens will be classified, and each purchaser will bear all
consequences of the Tokens being considered securities in their
respective jurisdictions, and bear the responsibility of the legality,
use and transfer of the Tokens in the relevant jurisdictions.

II. Further, the tax treatment of the acquisition or disposal of such
cryptocurrency or cryptographic assets might depend on whether
they are classified as securities, assets, currency or otherwise. As
the tax characterization of the Tokens remains indeterminate, you
must seek your own tax advice in connection with the purchase,
acquisition or disposal of the Tokens, which may result in adverse
tax consequences or tax reporting requirements for you.

(c)

The loss or compromise of information relating to the
purchaser wallet and your method of accessing the Platform
may affect your access to and possession of the Tokens.

There is a risk that you may lose access to and possession of the Tokens
permanently due to loss of unique personal ID created on the Platform,
and other identification information, loss of requisite private key(s)
associated with the purchaser wallet or vault storing the Tokens or any
other kind of custodial or purchaser errors.
(d)

Blockchains may face congestion and transactions may be
delayed or lost.

Most blockchains used for cryptocurrency transactions (e.g. Ethereum)
are prone to periodic congestion during which transactions can be
delayed or lost. Individuals may also intentionally spam the network in
an attempt to gain an advantage in purchasing cryptographic tokens.
This may result in a situation where block producers may not include
your purchase of the Tokens when you intends to transact, or your
transaction may not be included at all.
Privacy and data retention issues.
As part of the Token sales, the verification processes and the subsequent
operation of the Platform, the Company may collect personal information from
you. The collection of such information is subject to applicable laws and
regulations. All information collected will be used for purposes of the Token
sales and operations of the Platform, thus it may be transferred to contractors,
service providers and consultants worldwide as appointed by the Company.
Apart from external compromises, the Company and its appointed entities may
also suffer from internal security breaches whereby their employees may
misappropriate, misplace or lose personal information of purchasers. The
Company may be required to expend significant financial resources to alleviate
problems caused by any breaches or losses, settle fines and resolve inquiries
from regulatory or government authorities. Any information breaches or losses
will also damage the Company’s reputations, thereby harming its long-term
prospects.
Macro Risks

(a)

General global market and economic conditions may have an
adverse impact on the Company and its Affiliates’ operations
and the use of the Platform.

I.

The Company and its Affiliates could be affected by general global
economic and market conditions. Challenging economic conditions
worldwide have from time to time, contributed, and may continue to
contribute, to slowdowns in the information technology industry at
large. Weakness in the economy may have a negative effect on the
Company and its Affiliates’ business strategies, results of operations
and prospects.

II.

Suppliers on which the Platform relies for servers, bandwidth,
location and other services could also be negatively impacted by
economic conditions that, in turn, could have a negative impact on
the Company and its Affiliates’ operations or expenses.

III. There can be no assurance, therefore, that current economic
conditions or worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or
recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on the
Company and its Affiliates’ business strategies, results of operations
and prospects and hence the Platform, which may in turn impact the
value of the Tokens.
(b)

The regulatory regime governing blockchain technologies,
cryptocurrencies, Tokens, offering of Tokens, and the Platform
remain uncertain, and any changes, regulations or policies
may materially adversely affect the development of the
Platform and the utility of the Tokens
I.

Regulation of the Tokens, the offer and sale of Tokens,
cryptocurrencies, blockchain technologies, and cryptocurrency
exchanges is currently undeveloped or underdeveloped and likely
to rapidly evolve. Such regulation also varies significantly among
different jurisdictions, and is hence subject to significant
uncertainty. The various legislative and executive bodies in
different jurisdictions may in the future adopt laws, regulations,
guidance, or other actions, which may severely impact the
development and growth of the Platform, the adoption and utility
of the Tokens or the issue, offer, and sale of the Tokens by the

Company. Failure by the Company and its Affiliates or users of
the Platform to comply with any laws, rules and regulations, some
of which may not exist yet or are subject to interpretation and may
be subject to change, could result in a variety of adverse
consequences against the Company and its Affiliates, including
civil penalties and fines.
II. Blockchain networks also face an uncertain regulatory landscape
in many foreign jurisdictions. Various jurisdictions may, in the
near future, adopt laws, regulations or directives that affect the
Platform, and therefore, the value of the Tokens. Such laws,
regulations or directives may directly and negatively impact the
operations of the Company and its Affiliates. The effect of any
future regulatory change is impossible to predict, but such change
could be substantial and could materially adverse to the
development and growth of the Platform and the adoption and
utility of the Tokens.
III. To the extent that the Company and its Affiliates may be required
to obtain licenses, permits and/or approvals (collectively, the
“Regulatory Approvals”) to carry out its business, including that
of the creation of the Tokens and the development and operation
of the Platform, but are unable to obtain such Regulatory
Approvals or if such Regulatory Approvals are not renewed or
revoked for whatever reason by the relevant authorities, the
business of the Company and its Affiliates may be adversely
affected.
IV. There is no assurance that more stringent requirements will not be
imposed upon the Company and its Affiliates by the relevant
authorities in the future, or that the Company and its Affiliates will
be able to adapt in a timely manner to changing regulatory
requirements. These additional or more stringent regulations may
restrict the Company and its Affiliates’ ability to operate its
business and the Company and its Affiliates may face actions for
non-compliance if it fails to comply with any of such
requirements.
V. Further, should the costs (financial or otherwise) of complying
with such newly implemented regulations exceed a certain
threshold, maintaining the Platform may no longer be

commercially viable and the Company and its Affiliates may opt
to discontinue the Platform and/or the Tokens. Further, it is
difficult to predict how or whether governments or regulatory
authorities may implement any changes to laws and regulations
affecting distributed ledger technology and its applications,
including the Platform and the Tokens. The Company and its
Affiliates may also have to cease operations in a jurisdiction that
makes it illegal to operate in such jurisdiction, or make it
commercially unviable or undesirable to obtain the necessary
regulatory approval(s) to operate in such jurisdiction. In scenarios
such as the foregoing, the distributed Tokens may hold little or no
worth or value.
(c)

There may be risks relating to acts of God, natural disasters,
wars, terrorist attacks, riots, civil commotions widespread
communicable diseases and other events beyond the control of
the Company and its Affiliates

The sale of the Tokens and the performance of the Company, its
Affiliates and/or the Platform’s activities may be interrupted, suspended
or delayed due to acts of God, natural disasters, wars, terrorist attacks,
riots, civil commotions, widespread communicable diseases and other
events beyond the control of the Company and its Affiliates. Such events
could also lead to uncertainty in the economic outlook of global markets
and there is no assurance that such markets will not be affected, or that
recovery from the global financial crisis would continue. In such events,
the Company and its Affiliates’ business strategies, results of operations
and outlook may be materially and adversely affected, and the demand
for and use of the Tokens and the Platform may be materially affected.
Further, if an outbreak of such infectious or communicable diseases
occurs in any of the countries in which the Company, its Affiliates, and
the participants of the Platform have operations in the future, market
sentiment could be adversely affected and this may have a negative
impact on the Platform and its community.
(d)

Blockchain and cryptocurrencies, including the Tokens are a
relatively new and dynamic technology. In addition to the
risks highlighted herein, there are other risks associated with
your purchase of, holding and use of the Tokens, including
those that We cannot anticipate. Such risks may further
materialize as unanticipated variations or combinations of the
risks discussed herein.

1.6

No Further Information or Update
No person has been or is authorized to give any information or representation
not contained in this Whitepaper in connection with the Tokens, the Platform,
the Company or its Affiliates and their respective businesses and operations,
and, if given, such information or representation must not be relied upon as
having been authorized by or on behalf of the Company or its Affiliates.

1.7

Language
This Whitepaper may be translated into other languages. If any disagreement
should arise due to different language translations, the version in English will
prevail.

1.8 Advice
No information in this Whitepaper should be considered to be business, legal,
financial or tax advice regarding the Token, the Platform, the Company or its
Affiliates. You should consult your own legal, financial, tax or other
professional advisor(s) regarding the Token, the Company or its Affiliates and
their respective businesses and operations. You should be aware that you may
be required to bear the financial risk of any purchase of the Tokens for an
indefinite period of time.

