Connecting
Merchants & Consumers
with Blockchain

Whitepaper v1.4.2
2018.05.08

carryprotocol.io

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1.​

​Executive Summary

3

2.

Introduction

4

​2.1. Offline Commerce Market

4

Every business has a data silo problem

4

Marketing is inefficient and lacks transparency

5

Consumers have no control of data

6

Coupon and point management is a hassle

6

2.2. Carry Team’s Mission

3.

7

Carry Protocol

8

3.1. Carry Protocol

8

3.2. User Scenario

9

3.3. Business Flow

12

3.3.1. Payment

12

3.3.2. Branded Tokens, BT - Loyalty Point

12

3.3.3. Transaction data monetization

13

3.3.4. Branded Tokens - Advertisement

13

3.4. Token Model

15

3.4.1. Smart contract

15

3.4.2. Carry Token: CRE

15

Inflation and Carry Token Pool

15

3.4.3. Branded Tokens (BT)

17

3.5. Value-added Service Provider

18

3.5.1. Settlement service provider

18

3.5.2. Wallet service provider

18

carryprotocol.io

4.

5.

6.

7.

2

3.5.3. Device provider

19

3.5.4. Advertising service provider

20

3.6. Value Proposition

22

3.6.1. Consumer

22

3.6.2. Merchant

22

3.6.3. Advertiser

22

Partner company

24

4.1. Spoqa: Flagship Partner Company

24

4.2. Strategy to Encourage Participation by Partner Companies

26

4.2.1. Rewards for device providers

27

4.2.2. Rewards for wallet service providers

27

4.2.3. Rewards for other partners

27

Token Generation Event (TGE)

28

5.1. Token Distribution

28

5.2. Use of Funds

29

5.3. Roadmap

30

Legal disclaimers

31

6.1. Legal Statement

31

6.2. Restrictions on Distribution and Dissemination

32

6.3. Disclaimer of Liability

32

6.4. Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements

33

6.5. Potential Risks

34

6.6. No Further Information or Update

36

6.7. No Advice

36

Contacts

37

carryprotocol.io

3

carryprotocol.io

1.

4

Executive Summary

Carry is a platform that connects offline merchants and consumers using blockchain.
Despite the rapid growth of online and mobile commerce, consumption mostly still takes place
offline. But the offline commerce market, even with its staggering market size of $25 trillion, still lags
behind in technology due to the time and energy it takes to introduce and spread new technology.
Offline commerce has three major issues. First, merchants have little understanding of their
customers because customer data is fragmented and incomplete. Second, consumers have no control
over their data while corporations use and monetize this information. Third, offline advertising is
outdated, lacking in transparency and effectiveness.
Carry Protocol aims to resolve these problems with three objectives: 1) provide a platform for
merchants to understand their customers and communicate with them, 2) enable consumers to
control their own transaction data and monetize the information, and 3) offer a new advertising
channel that is effective and transparent.
The most crucial component to realizing these objectives is the team behind Carry Protocol,
comprised of the founding members of Spoqa. Over the past 7 years, they have grown Dodo Point into
the number one tablet-based loyalty platform in Korea and Japan, securing 10,000 partner merchants
with 15 million customers and tracking over $2 billion worth of offline payment data annually. Such
accomplishments were achieved in a challenging offline environment, and the offline execution
experience will be one of most valuable drivers of success for the Carry Protocol.
As Carry’s flagship partner, Spoqa will leverage its existing merchant and consumer base to scale
Carry Protocol into the market. This will give Carry Protocol a competitive edge in the market and
help achieve faster application in the real world.
Carry will also encourage participation of various partners and offer fair rewards to anyone who
contributes to the growth of Carry in the earlier stage, including Spoqa, thereby creating a healthy
ecosystem for merchants, partner companies, contributors and most importantly, everyday
consumers.

carryprotocol.io

5

2.

Introduction

2.1. Offline Commerce Market
Online and mobile commerce markets have grown rapidly in the recent years, but overall commerce
remains dominated by the $25 trillion offline market1. According to a study by AT Kearney, 90% of all
retail spending by American consumers took place in offline stores, illustrating that people still spend
most of their money in real brick-and-mortar stores2.
Unsurprisingly, major online giants are making significant investments into offline businesses.
Amazon’s $14 billion acquisition of Whole Foods reflects the strategic importance of linking online
with offline. This is not just an American phenomenon, with Asian companies like Alibaba and
Tencent also moving into offline with multibillion dollar purchases of shopping centers and
hypermarkets.
Every business has a data silo problem
It is relatively easy to identify consumer data in the online domain to execute and track the
effectiveness of advertising. However, this is more difficult in the offline market because consumer
data is split between different players and cannot be consolidated.
Figure 1 illustrates instances of how credit card transactions made in a store is split between
credit card companies (Visa, Mastercard, American Express, etc.), merchants (X and Y), and
point-of-sales software companies (1 and 2). Credit card companies know the customer, location, and
transaction amount but do not know what the customer purchased. On the other hand, the
merchants and point-of-sales software companies know what the customer purchased, location, and
transaction amount but not the identities of the customer.
In other words, each player can only access a limited set of data with none of them having the
complete picture. Unless all of these entities merge their split data, it is impossible to have a truly
consolidated view of offline transactions. It seems unlikely for these players to consolidate their data
due to competitive interests and antitrust and privacy regulations. Thus, it will be difficult to see a
completely comprehensive set of data tracking offline purchasing behavior.

1
2

https://www.statista.com/statistics/443522/global-retail-sales/
AT Kearney, “On Solid Ground: Brick-and-Mortar Is the Foundation of Omnichannel Retailing”

carryprotocol.io

6

Figure 1. Typical transaction data ownership split

Marketing is inefficient and lacks transparency
Marketing campaigns are usually conducted on channels with a large number of consumers, allowing
them to charge a massive fee based on the sheer size of their viewer base. But despite the high
marketing costs, there is no way of truly knowing how many people were exposed to the ad or how
effective it was. Advertisers have no choice but to trust the results provided by the channel. There are
also very few channels with a large consumer base, so advertisers end up relying on a few channel
owners like Facebook and Google.
Offline merchants desiring a different form of marketing are left handing out flyers on the
streets. This form of advertising lacks efficiency and has a major disadvantage of being untrackable.
Merchants pay hundreds or thousands of dollars to distribute flyers on the streets but have no way of
knowing if the campaign was effective at driving real traffic and revenue.

carryprotocol.io

7

Figure 2. Typical ad campaign on Facebook

Consumers have no control of data
Consumers have no ownership or control over their data. Millions of accounts on Equifax were
exposed in the 2017 hack, but consumers were left at the mercy of the data holding entities. Beyond
security, data is often monetized without the knowledge or consent of the very people generating this
data. When signing up for new services, consumers typically pay no attention to terms that allow
corporations to use and monetize data, and agree to these terms. For example, Apple’s iTunes Terms
& Conditions is nearly 7,000 words long, or the approximate length of this paper, and the document
renders users’ data rights to Apple’s discretion. The very consumers enabling data monetization are
left out of profits generated from their activities.
Coupon and point management is a hassle
From a consumer’s standpoint, there are too many coupons to manage offline. A large number of
stores still use paper coupons, and many of them end up in a drawer somewhere beyond their
expiration dates. Even electronic coupons are managed separately on different apps by different
stores and brands. Although there are apps that consolidate coupons and points to resolve this issue,
it is still inconvenient for consumers to use.
The offline retail market is subject to the largest technological disruption. The Carry Team believes
that the introduction of blockchain technology and its innovative ecosystem in the offline market will
help overcome the above challenges and offer more benefits to all participants.

carryprotocol.io

8

2.2. Carry Team’s Mission
The Carry Team aspires to innovate the offline commerce market by using blockchain technology to
solve the aforementioned issues. Based on its experience conducting business in the offline market
and securing 10,000 partner merchants with 15 million consumers, the team wishes to resolve the
inefficiencies of the offline domain through the following:
1.

Provide a platform for merchants to understand their customers and communicate with them

2.

Enable consumers to control their own payment data and monetize the information

3.

Offer a new advertising channel that is effective and transparent

The Carry Team is launching Carry Protocol to successfully realize the three objectives defined
above. The team will spare no time to build the Carry Protocol and begin spreading it to the existing
merchant and customer base. The team will then build the Carry ecosystem where it can prosper
together with its contributing participants.

carryprotocol.io

3.

9

Carry Protocol

3.1. Carry Protocol
In simple terms, Carry is​ ​a platform that connects merchants and consumers using blockchain​.
Merchants and consumers are the most important participants of the system and use Carry Protocol
to communicate and interact in various ways. Another participant in the Carry Protocol is advertisers,
many of whom are expected initially to be merchants in the system.
Carry Protocol comprises of two major parts, each with two components : First is the blockchain
itself that houses ​1) Carry transaction database, ​and​ 2) Carry smart contracts,​ and second is a set of
APIs that connect the blockchain to third party software, including​ 3) Carry wallet API a
​ nd​ 4) Carry
device API.
1) Carry transaction database refers to the virtual database on the blockchain where the
transaction data is generated and uploaded by consumers. 2) Carry smart contract supports the
issuance and use of tokens (CRE and BT) on the Carry Protocol. 3) Carry wallet API enables wallet
apps to support Carry Protocol and lets consumers manage their cryptocurrency, control their
transaction data & privacy settings. 4) Carry device API is an API that allows devices at the stores to
support Carry Protocol, and provides the function to pay with cryptocurrency and sends payment
data to consumer’s wallet. Each of the above will be explained in further detail.
Figure 3. Components of Carry Protocol

carryprotocol.io

10

3.2. User Scenario
Before providing a detailed explanation of the token mechanism for Carry Protocol, we will share
three general user scenarios that will aid in understanding the Carry Protocol.
Table 1. Key definitions in the scenario
CRE

Carry Token (main token of Carry Protocol)

Bryan’s Sandwich

a hypothetical restaurant, merchant user of the Carry platform

BST

Bryan’s Sandwich Branded Tokens (a type of BT created on the Carry platform)

Bird Coffee

a hypothetical coffee shop

Bird Coffee Tokens

Bird Coffee’s Branded Tokens (a type of BT created on the Carry platform)

DewDrop Beauty

a hypothetical large cosmetics company, an advertiser in the scenario

Scenario #1: Fiat payment and rewards
Customer View

Merchant View

Carol is an office worker and visits Bryan’s Sandwich
for lunch. After ordering her sandwich and fries, she
gets ready to pay.

Bryan is a merchant in the Carry Protocol that owns a
Sandwich store.

She decides to pay in fiat with her credit card, instead
of using cryptocurrency like BTC or ETH.
Bryan processes the $10 transaction and asks Carol,
”Would you like to collect some points? We give 10% of
the money back in the form of our store’s tokens (BST).”
Carol says “yes” and notices that the tablet facing her
is already awaiting for her phone number with the
following message:
“Collect $1 worth of BST tokens!”
Carol inputs her phone number on the tablet and
collects the tokens. It was very convenient because
she didn’t even have to take out her phone from her
pocket and open a wallet app.
Bryan receives a message on his POS that confirms that $1
worth of BST has been sent.
Even though Bryan offered points, he is happy because
there is a higher chance that the customer will come back.
The point he just gave out actually has a one-month
expiration.

carryprotocol.io

11

As she walks out, Carol checks her wallet app and sees
that her transaction data from Bryan’s Sandwich is
there. Transaction data consists of the store’s
location, store type, anonymized store ID, price, SKU#
and etc. Carol decides to share her transaction data
on Carry blockchain, and opts-in to receive ads.
Shortly after, Carol is rewarded 5 CRE for uploading
her transaction data.

Scene #2: Targeted coupons and crypto payments
Customer view

Merchant view

In her wallet app, Carol had previously agreed to
receive relevant ads from nearby coffee and dessert
shops.

Bird Coffee is a new coffee shop that has opened nearby
Carol’s office. They are willing to pay for advertisement to
attract new customers.
Having limited success with flyers, Bird Coffee decides to
join the Carry Protocol for advertisement.
Bird Coffee signed with an ad-company for its
advertisement, and uses them to send CRE and Bird
Coffee Branded Tokens to the users who agreed to
receiving coupons.

Carol receives an alert in her wallet app:
”Bird Coffee Grand Opening, 1 free cup of Americano!”
Carol decides to use the free coupon. She follows the
Google Maps link on the wallet app to find Bird Coffee,
and orders a pretzel and her free coffee.
They tell the customer that crypto payment is also
accepted, and that an additional discount is offered for
CRE payments.
Carol likes this idea and agrees to pay in CRE, since
she has recently collected a lot of CRE. The tablet
facing her generates a unique QR, and Carol scans it
using the wallet app on her phone.
CRE is deposited into the Bird Coffee’s wallet. They can
use this CRE for more targeted marketing in the Carry
System in the future.
Just like before, Carol receives Bird Coffee tokens for
her purchase at the store, and additional CRE for
sharing transaction data on Carry blockchain.

carryprotocol.io

12

Scene #3: Targeted marketing by a third party

Customer view

Merchant view

Carol has previously agreed to receive ads and even
received some useful coupons.

DewDrop Beauty is a global cosmetics company. Although
their primary target is women in their 20s, they recently
launched a new cosmetics line for women in their 30s.
DewDrop decides not to spend a lot of money advertising
on channels like Facebook, and wants to instead give the
value directly to the consumers.
DewDrop buys $50,000 worth of CRE to advertise on the
Carry System.
Based on purchase behavior, they are able to target
middle to high income women working in Seoul.

Carol is about to leave work when she receives a
message from DewDrop Beauty:
“Come check out our pop-up store!”
More importantly, she receives $5 worth of CRE along
with the ad message.
Carol decides not to go tonight, but considers
checking it out over the weekend with her friends.

DewDrop is happy because they were able to identify their
target consumers, and also save money on keyword ads or
sponsored ads to instead give that value directly to the
consumers.

carryprotocol.io

13

3.3. Business Flow
Figure 4. Business Flow

3.3.1. Payment
Carry Protocol’s service begins when a consumer buys goods or services at a store and completes a
transaction, just as Carol did in Scene #1. Carry Protocol​ supports fiat payments such as credit card
and cash, as well as cryptocurrencies​, making it easy to use for anyone.

Means of payment

Description

1) Cryptocurrency

In addition to CRE and BT, Carry Protocol will also accept payments in other
cryptocurrencies such as BTC and ETH.
Many merchants may be reluctant to accept cryptocurrencies over fiat money,
creating the need for a “settlement service provider” to convert the
cryptocurrency into fiat money for the merchant. Anyone can become a
settlement service provider in the Carry Protocol, and merchants can work with
the settlement service provider of their choice. Merchants can also choose to
receive the cryptocurrency directly, in which case they can collect the amount
without the help of a settlement service provider.

2) Fiat
(cash, credit card)

For the time being, most consumers will likely pay in fiat. These transactions
undergo the same processes as existing transactions, and therefore does not
require any additional action by the merchants.

Merchants must be equipped with an interactive device like a tablet to use Carry Protocol. Most
merchants already have a POS (point-of-sales) device, which could itself function as a Carry Protocol
device or require a separate device like the tablet. The device will send the transaction data from the
POS to the customer, and help the customer upload this data on the blockchain.
3.3.2. Branded Tokens, BT - Loyalty Point
Merchants often provide loyalty points or coupons to customers as a way to encourage return visits.
Carry Protocol helps merchants to this end by providing tokens branded for each merchant.

carryprotocol.io

14

In the above scene #1, the $1 worth of BST that Carol receives is a type of BT in the form of
loyalty points. The BT is issued by merchants and provided to customers, regardless of whether or
not the customer chooses to upload the payment data on the blockchain.
The Branded Tokens act as a receivable issued to the consumer by the merchant, and thereby
imposes an obligation on the merchant to provide goods, services, or other benefits accordingly. BTs
have a number of other properties and uses, which we will be detailed later.
3.3.3. Transaction data monetization
After completing the transaction at the store, consumers will receive the transaction data on their
wallet app. There are multiple ways of receiving transaction data: one example is by entering their
phone number on the device as was done in Scene #1, or another is by scanning the QR code from the
device using the wallet app like in Scene #2.
The consumer can then decide whether or not they upload the transaction data on the
blockchain. It is entirely up to the consumer whether to upload the data or not, in part or in whole.
Carry Protocol gives full authority of the data to the consumers t​ o realize its mission of “consumer
data ownership.” Even when the consumer chooses to upload the transaction data, whether in part or
in whole, their privacy will be protected through anonymity shield and data encryption.
Carry Protocol gives consumers CRE (pronounced “carry”) as a reward for uploading their
transaction data on the blockchain, thereby encouraging more uploads. The CRE given to consumers
will be taken from the Carry Token Pool built from the inflation of the blockchain itself, to be
elaborated later.
3.3.4. Branded Tokens - Advertisement
In addition to using BT as a loyalty system, as described above in 3.3.2, BT can also be used for
advertisement. The Bird Coffee coupon that was given to Carol in Scene #2 and the message from
DewDrop Beauty in Scene #3 are all examples of Branded Tokens used for advertisements.
Transaction data that is stored on the blockchain will likely be used mostly for targeted
advertisements. Advertisers can process available data and narrow down consumers suitable to their
marketing needs to target ads on the Carry Protocol. If the advertisers find it difficult to process the
transaction data themselves, the “advertising service provider” can help them identify the right
targets for their ads.
Advertisements are sent in the form of BT on the Carry Protocol. Based on its property, the BT
could be a coupon to be used on the next visit or a simple ad display. On the receiving end,
consumers see the ad on their wallet app in the form of BT. Consumers can choose whether or not
they want to receive ads by configuring the setting, and even choose specific areas of interest for ads
(F&B, cosmetics, etc.).
Consumers that opt to receive ads will also receive CRE on top of the BT as a reward for ad
exposure. Consumers can set the minimum threshold for the level of CRE rewards, so that BT (ads) is

carryprotocol.io

15

only sent when a certain number of CRE has been received as a mechanism to protect themselves
from indiscriminate ads or spam. Consumers are rewarded CRE by the advertiser for opting to
receive ads, which is an incentive that has been proven to be effective through a number of reward
apps. From the advertiser’s point of view, the cost of advertising has been minimized and instead
given directly to consumers for a more effective form of advertising at a lower cost.
Carry Protocol also allows advertisers to track the effectiveness of their ads, as is typically done
in online advertisements. Both the issuance and use of Branded Tokens are traceable, making it
possible to measure ROAS (return on ad spend) and distinguishing it from the traditional method of
handing out flyers. If professional advertising businesses (DMP, etc.) combine existing data with
Carry Protocol data, we can expect to see highly effective advertisements in the offline market.
Most of the advertisers will likely be merchants on Carry Protocol, but we also expect to see
non-profit, government or public enterprises, companies seeking to improve their corporate image,
and other advertisers who are not necessarily aiming to sell products. Media and researchers could
also analyze Carry Protocol data for media coverage or academic papers. Carry Protocol’s data will
have a broad use in a wide range of areas.

carryprotocol.io

16

3.4. Token Model
3.4.1. Smart contract
The numerous features of Carry Protocol can be accessed through Smart Contract. BT is the most
basic and important function of Carry Protocol, and merchants can issue BT of various types through
Smart Contract. Carry will continue to add more features, including store reviews, through Smart
Contract.
The entities using Smart Contract (mostly merchants) must 1) stake a certain amount of CRE on
Carry Protocol or 2) pay-as-you-go (in CRE) for each use of Smart Contract. Staking a fixed amount of
CRE allows a specified usage level for Smart Contract (i.e. number of BT transactions per day). If the
daily usage exceeds the set level, the user must pay a fee for each use in CRE. This is because
executing Smart Contract requires Carry Protocol’s resources, which incurs cost. This also protects
the system from attacks (abusing, DoS attack, etc.) against the blockchain.
The per-use fee for Smart Contract can be set at a higher price point than the opportunity cost
for CRE stake, encouraging merchants and advertisers to stake more CRE. If a merchant wishes to
conduct more transactions than provided by their CRE stake, they can also offer perks and benefits to
other participants such as their customers and have them deposit CRE on their behalf.
3.4.2. Carry Token: CRE
CRE is the main token of Carry Protocol. Its various uses can be summarized as follows:

Uses

Description

1) Stake to execute Smart
Contract

A fixed amount of CRE stake or a per-use fee is required to use Smart Contract to
access various features of Carry Protocol.

2) Reward in exchange for
advertisement

CRE must be provided to consumer, advertising service provider, or wallet (app)
service provider as a reward to conduct ads on Carry Protocol using its
transaction data.

3) Means of payment

CRE is in itself a means of payment and an asset that can be traded at
exchanges, and thus can be used at stores like any other cryptocurrency.

Inflation and Carry Token Pool
CRE will be subject to inflation with the growth of Carry Protocol, and such inflation will be used to
reward consumers for uploading transaction data on the blockchain as mentioned above. Since the
growth of Carry Protocol is linked closely with the accumulation of transaction data on the
blockchain, it only makes sense for consumers to reap some of the benefits as the very entity

carryprotocol.io

17

uploading the data. The inflation rate will also be adjusted based on assessment of the value of new
transaction data compared to the value of accumulated transaction data.
The value of data is calculated based not only on the number of transactions but also the detailed
information within the transaction such as date, SKU# and more.
As mentioned above, CRE stake or per-use fee must be made to execute Smart Contract. The
per-use fee, paid in CRE, is accumulated in the central CRE Pool of the Carry Protocol. The CRE Pool
is where the CRE from the per-use fee and the CRE from inflation are located. When CRE is rewarded
to consumers for uploading transaction data, it does not come directly from inflation but via the CRE
Pool.

Figure 5. Carry Token Pool

T : Total CRE issued
T i : CRE issued by inflation
T p : CRE amount in CRE pool
T f :​ Tokens staked to execute smart contracts over specific time
V a : Absolute value of transaction data uploaded by individual customer
V r : Relative value of transaction data uploaded by individual customer
i : Inflation Rate
Rc : Reward for each customer
V a = f (Content of uploaded transaction data)
V r = V a / Σ ( V a over specific time period)
i = min ( f (Specific time period, Σ ( V a over time), Σ ( V a over specific time period) ), Max inflation rate)
* Inflation rate can be set over specific time period (not necessarily annually)
* Max inflation rate is not determined yet
Ti = T · i
Tp = Ti + Tf
Rc = V r · T p

carryprotocol.io

18

3.4.3. Branded Tokens (BT)
BT is a token on the blockchain that is generated and issued through Smart Contract by merchants or
advertisers on the Carry Protocol. It is a key element connecting merchants (advertisers) and
consumers.
BT can be defined in a variety of ways by configuring its properties. For example, 1BT could be
given a monetary value of $1 or the equivalent of a cup of coffee. It could be given an expiration date
so that it is only valid for 30 days, or have an interest rate. For the sake of operational security, Carry
Team will define the initial BT properties and protocol users will not be able to generate or change
them. The Carry Team will continue to take into account the needs of users and add new types of
properties, and hopefully allow the community to define its own properties in the long run.

Figure 6. Examples of BT properties

carryprotocol.io

19

3.5. Value-added Service Provider
In addition to the key participants mentioned above, Carry Protocol also has value-added service
providers that support the seamless operation of its service. These value-added service providers do
not operate within the blockchain but use the blockchain-provided API to interact with other key
participants as an important player in the Carry Protocol. There are four main groups of value-added
service providers: settlement service provider, wallet service provider, device provider, and
advertising service provider. Other value-added service providers could be added with the growth of
Carry Protocol.
3.5.1. Settlement service provider
Settlement service providers are required in the transaction phase of the Carry Protocol.
Merchants that wish to convert cryptocurrency into fiat money could select among the settlement
service providers to achieve this. For example, when a customer wants to pay with BTC, the merchant
asks the customer to send BTC to the address of a pre-determined settlement service provider. The
settlement service provider converts this cryptocurrency into fiat money based on an agreed (either
by the user or the market) exchange rate and sends it to the merchant. Although the transaction does
not take place on the Carry blockchain, recommendation will be made to build the system with Carry
Protocol within the method of payment and transfer, thereby making settlement service providers an
important partner for Carry Protocol.
Most of the revenue for the settlement service providers will come from settlement fees, but the
service providers are free to offer other services as part of its revenue model. Anyone can become a
settlement service provider, but we expect cryptocurrency exchanges to be the biggest participants in
the earlier stage with their existing technologies. In the long run, we also expect to see other players
from the payment process or the financial market to take an interest in this service.
Figure 7. Settlement service provider

3.5.2. Wallet service provider
Of all the participants in Carry Protocol, wallet service providers have the biggest influence over
consumers. They create and distribute wallets to consumers in the form of mobile apps. Three key
functions of the wallet include: 1) helping consumers manage their transaction data and upload it on

carryprotocol.io

20

blockchain for a reward, 2) allowing consumers to keep and use Carry Protocol cryptocurrencies
(CRE and BT) and other forms of cryptocurrencies (BTC, ETH, etc.), and 3) functioning as an
advertisement channel.
Wallet service providers will likely generate revenue in a number of ways, since they interact
directly with consumers. In the earlier stage, major app services with an existing user base are
expected to add Carry Protocol on top of their businesses to create a profitable synergy effects, rather
than brand new businesses joining the ecosystem. It is also possible for ad channel owners to take an
interest in this role in the future.
Figure 8. Wallet service provider

3.5.3. Device provider
Merchants must be equipped with devices to use the Carry Protocol in the store. Devices are an
important point of contact with consumers, sending the transaction data to consumers so they can
upload it on the Carry blockchain and linking merchants to settlement service providers. Device
providers install devices at the stores and provide the software for the device, with Spoqa being a
prime example.

carryprotocol.io

21

Device providers generate revenue from the use fee that merchants pay for building the system
for their use of the Carry Protocol. Merchants are required to make a CRE deposit to use Carry
Protocol, but device providers could also make this deposit on their behalf and receive a usage fee
from them. Device providers could also receive a commission for introducing merchants to
advertising service providers for consumer ads. However, these are mere examples and device
providers should build their own business models. Since device providers have a great influence over
their large merchant base, we expect them to come up with a variety of revenue models.

Figure 9. Device Provider

3.5.4. Advertising service provider
Advertising service providers analyze transaction data on behalf of advertisers to narrow down target
consumers and conduct ad campaigns. Merchants will make up most of the advertisers on Carry
Protocol in the earlier stage, but it will be difficult for them to access blockchain and extract target
consumers on their own. Therefore, advertising service providers can play an important role in
conducting the right ad campaigns for advertisers.
Advertising service providers will likely be businesses currently active in the online ad market
who are also interested in offline data and wish to find a point of contact on the offline domain. If
these players enter Carry Protocol and demonstrate the profitability of ads on the platform, more
advertising service providers are expected to follow. Large participation of advertising service
providers and competition among them will inevitably enhance the efficiency of advertisements,
which will attract advertisers to partake in the Carry ecosystem.
Advertising service providers are required to stake or pay a fee in CRE, as are merchants. This is
because advertising service providers will receive BT (ads) and CRE from advertisers to pass onto
target consumers, and they must go through Smart Contract during this process to deliver the BT.
Greater profitability for advertising service providers will lead to higher growth of CRE deposits by
advertising service providers relative to deposits made by merchants themselves.

carryprotocol.io

22

Figure 10. Advertising service provider

carryprotocol.io

23

3.6. Value Proposition
3.6.1. Consumer
The consumers purchasing goods or services at the stores will take away the following benefits as a
key participant in Carry Protocol:
First, customers will be rewarded BT for buying from merchants that support Carry Protocol.
After the usual transaction is complete, customers will receive loyalty points or coupons in the form
of a BT that they can use on their next visit.
Second, consumers will be rewarded CRE for uploading transaction data. After the purchase,
they can selectively share their transaction data on Carry Protocol and receive a reward from Carry
Protocol for sharing this information.
Third, consumers will be rewarded CRE for accepting advertisements. Carry Protocol eliminates
the middle players like the existing marketing channels, so these fees go directly to the consumers.
Fourth, consumers can manage the points and coupons for various stores in one app. Small and
medium businesses usually issue points and coupons in different ways, making it difficult for
customers to manage them together. The Carry Wallet app will enable everyday consumers to use
one app for simple management of points and coupons.

3.6.2. Merchant
Merchants are defined as businesses that provide goods or services to consumers in exchange for
cryptocurrency or fiat. As a key participant in Carry Protocol, merchants will take away the following
benefits:
First, the benefits mentioned in the previous section will encourage consumers to opt for
merchants that support Carry Protocol. Therefore, merchants will be able to attract more customers
by supporting Carry Protocol, which will lead to more sales.
Second, Carry Protocol will make it easier for merchants to manage their customers. The
interface provided by Carry Protocol will be easy to use, despite the complexity of the protocol or
blockchain technology behind it. Merchants can use the interface to learn more about their
customers and use BT for various forms of interaction with their customers. For instance, merchants
can use BT to conduct a customer satisfaction survey, or offer a special BT (coupon) to first-time
customers to encourage return.
3.6.3. Advertiser
Advertisers are participants who wish to advertise to consumers on Carry Protocol, and can take away
the following benefits:

carryprotocol.io

24

First, advertisers can put out an ad very efficiently in the offline market. Unlike passing out
flyers, Carry Protocol will allow advertisers to track the effectiveness of the ad, which will enable
them to narrow down specific targets of their ads over time.
Second, advertisers can release the ad on Carry Protocol via easy-to-use interface so that they can
focus on other aspects of their business.

carryprotocol.io

4.

25

Partner company

4.1. Spoqa: Flagship Partner Company
Spoqa will join Carry Protocol as its first key partner company. Early members of the Carry Team will
comprise of founding members of Spoqa, guaranteeing full support from Spoqa for Carry Protocol.
However, this does not mean that Carry Protocol will give any preferential treatment to Spoqa or
operate solely for Spoqa. Carry’s partner program demonstrates our commitment to fair treatment to
all partners, which will be further discussed later.
Spoqa operates Dodo Point, a customer-facing tablet based loyalty platform for SMB merchants.
Over the past 7 years, Spoqa has interacted closely with merchants in the offline market to build a
service that suits their needs, and has achieved remarkable accomplishments. Dodo Point currently
has 15 million consumers and 10,000 merchants, and is being widely used in a variety of sectors as
shown in Figure 13.

Figure 11. Dodo accumulated user base

Figure 12. Dodo Point check-ins per day

carryprotocol.io

26

Figure 13. Dodo point by sectors

During its operation of Dodo Point, Spoqa has developed various services to meet the needs of
merchants (shown in Table 2), all of which are underlying foundations for Carry Protocol. In
particular, the tablet devices installed at each store are wirelessly connected to the merchant’s
point-of-sale (POS) device, enabling it to support Carry Protocol with a simple software update. By
leveraging Spoqa’s assets, Carry Protocol will be able to penetrate the offline commerce market and
connect to merchants and consumers effectively and professionally.
Table 2. Dodo Point services
Service

Description

Dodo Point

Tablet-based loyalty service for offline stores
Customers can receive loyalty points by entering their phone numbers into the
Dodo tablet.

Dodo Message

Coupon automation via messaging apps
Dodo Message automates coupon-sending to customers whose contact
information is collected with Dodo Point. Spoqa's automated coupons have a
redemption rate of 6-7%, twice as effective as merchant-sent coupons with an
average redemption rate of 3%.

Dodo Ads

Targeted advertising with customer purchase data
Merchants can target their advertisements on social media like Facebook or
Instagram based on the offline purchase patterns of consumers.

Dodo Manager

Admin and control panel with one-click payment for Dodo services
Merchants can customize Dodo services via Dodo Manager, the control panel for
Spoqa's services. Merchant's credit card information is linked to Dodo Manager
for easy payments.

carryprotocol.io

27

Spoqa has many strategic partners and clients, and have been acknowledged in various media
coverage and awards.
Table 3. Spoqa’s key partners, clients, and media coverage
Strategic partners

Major clients

Media coverage

Awards

4.2. Strategy to Encourage Participation by Partner Companies
Although Spoqa could initially help secure merchants and consumers as Carry Protocol’s first key
partner, it is important for other key players to participate to form a healthy ecosystem. It is therefore
crucial to secure as many partners as possible early on for the successful launch of the service and for
the continued growth of Carry Protocol.
In the initial phase, Carry Protocol aims to partner with businesses that have relevance to Carry
Protocol. These businesses will be similar to the value-added service providers. For example,
exchanges could function as settlement service providers and businesses that manage points for
consumers through apps or that run cryptocurrency wallets could take part as wallet service
providers. Companies like Spoqa, as well as franchise businesses, could become device providers,
and ad-tech companies that develop DMP (data management platforms) could become advertising
service providers.
Carry Protocol benefits many different partners, and offers the following rewards for our
partners:

carryprotocol.io

28

4.2.1. Rewards for device providers
Device providers are crucial partners for the successful launch of Carry Protocol. One of the reasons
that Spoqa is such an important partner to Carry Protocol is because it has 10,000 merchants and can
function as a device provider to Carry. Companies like Spoqa will be able to take part in Carry
Protocol as device providers, and partnering with large franchises as device providers could help
Carry Protocol achieve rapid growth.
The rewards program for device providers is defined as a function of two parameters: number of
partner merchants device provider brings into Carry ecosystem, and relative timing. If a merchant
that the partner is managing joins Carry Protocol and builds a system, Carry Protocol will send CRE to
the partner. Merchants can designate their partners at the time they join Carry, similar to writing
down the friend who recommended you to a website when signing up for an online service. An
important point here is that the number of CRE’s that a partner receives is reduced as the number of
merchants grows, rewarding partners more in the earlier stage for bringing in merchants since this
will have a bigger impact on overall network effect. Carry Protocol’s first key partner, Spoqa, will also
be rewarded accordingly.
Rewards must be given not only to the device providers but also the merchants for the service to
spread faster. Therefore, merchants will also be rewarded with a fixed amount of CRE’s following the
“recommend a friend” concept. Partners could also offer the merchant a portion of their own CRE as
incentive for the merchant to join, and this would be entirely up to the partner.
4.2.2. Rewards for wallet service providers
Wallet service providers are just as crucial as device providers. They have similar relationships with
consumers as device providers have with merchants. Therefore, a fixed amount of CRE will be given
to a wallet service provider when a consumer uses the protocol more than once. Similarly to device
providers, the number of CRE’s will decline as the number of consumers increase.
4.2.3. Rewards for other partners
Settlement and advertising service providers are partners that will become more meaningful as Carry
Protocol grows. Therefore, they are not included in the initial token distribution plan. Once Carry
Protocol launches and their services gain importance, these partners will be rewarded via Carry Pool
or other means as necessary.

carryprotocol.io

5.

29

Token Generation Event (TGE)

5.1. Token Distribution
Carry Tokens (CRE) are issued to develop Carry Protocol and build its ecosystem. Supporters can take
part in the token generation event by sending crytocurrency. The exchange rate of tokens to be given
to participants will be defined via an announcement on Carry Protocol communication channels
(website, Facebook, Twitter, etc.) prior to the TGE.
10 billion tokens will be issued, 40% of which will be made available to TGE participants. About
25% of the tokens will be for the partner program mentioned above (4.2), 15% for market activation
such as airdrop for merchants and consumers, 10% for the Carry Team that is working to build the
ecosystem, 5% for advisors helping to launch Carry Protocol, and 5% as reserve.
Figure 14. Token Distribution

carryprotocol.io

30

5.2. Use of Funds
The funds raised through TGE will be used to develop Carry Protocol and build its ecosystem. About
30% of the funds will be used on the core research and development (R&D), 25% to provide the
necessary devices to merchants (payment hardware), 20% for overall business operation to operate
Carry Protocol and help the business gain stability (operation & business development), 15% to
promote awareness and actual usage of Carry Protocol in the real world (sales & marketing), and 10%
will be reserved for other uses. The distribution of funds is only an estimate, and is subject to change
in the future if deemed necessary to promote Carry Protocol.
Figure 16. Use of Funds

carryprotocol.io

31

5.3. Roadmap
Based on the current timeline, we expect to complete TGE by the third quarter of 2018 and to develop
basic components to launch Testnet by fourth quarter of 2018. The goal is to have the system up and
running in the market sometime in the second half of 2019, with the launch of Mainnet and basic API
for 3rd Party participation available in the first half of 2019.

2018 H2

2019 H1

2019 H2

Protocol Building

2020 H1
Application Building

Smart Contract

Reference Wallet

Production Wallet

Protocol API

Reference Point-of-Sale

Production Point-of-Sale

Ad Management System

carryprotocol.io

6.

32

Legal disclaimers

Please read this entire section carefully. If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take,
please consult your legal, financial, tax or other professional advisor(s).

6.1. Legal Statement
(a)

This whitepaper (“Whitepaper”), in its current form, is circulated for general information

purposes only in relation to the Carry Protocol project as presently conceived and is subject to review
and revision. Please note that this Whitepaper is a work in progress and the information in this
Whitepaper is current only as of the date on the cover hereof. Thereafter, the information, including
information concerning ther Carry Protocol business operations and financial conditions, may have
changed. We reserve the right to update the Whitepaper from time to time.
(b)

No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal commitment in relation to

the sale and purchase of Carry Tokens (“CRE”) and no payment is to be accepted on the basis of this
Whitepaper. Any sale and purchase of CRE will be governed by a legally binding agreement, the
details of which will be made available separately from this Whitepaper. In the event of any
inconsistencies between the abovementioned agreement and this Whitepaper, the former shall
prevail.
(c)

This Whitepaper does not constitute or form part of any opinion on any advice to sell, or

any solicitation of any offer by the issuer/distributor/vendor of CRE to purchase any CRE nor shall it
or any part of it nor the fact of its presentation form the basis of, or be relied upon in connection
with, any contract or investment decision.
(d)

CRE is not intended to constitute securities, units in a business trust, or units in a

collective investment scheme, each as defined under the Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289) of
Singapore, or its equivalent in any other jurisdiction. Accordingly, this Whitepaper therefore, does
not, and is not intended to, constitute a prospectus, profile statement, or offer document of any sort,
and should not be construed as an offer of securities of any form, units in a business trust, units in a
collective investment scheme or any other form of investment, or a solicitation for any form of
investment in any jurisdiction.
(e)

No CRE should be construed, interpreted, classified or treated as enabling, or according

any opportunity to, purchasers to participate in or receive profits, income, or other payments or

carryprotocol.io

33

returns arising from or in connection with the Carry Protocol platform, CRE, or products, or to
receive sums paid out of such profits, income, or other payments or returns.
(f)

This Whitepaper or any part hereof may not be reproduced, distributed or otherwise

disseminated in any jurisdiction where offering coins/tokens in the manner set out this Whitepaper
is regulated or prohibited.
(g)

No regulatory authority has reviewed, examined or approved of any of the information set

out in this Whitepaper. No such action has been or will be taken in any jurisdiction.
(h)

Where you wish to purchase any CRE, the CRE are not to be construed, interpreted,

classified or treated as: (a) any kind of currency other than cryptocurrency; (b) debentures, stocks or
shares issued by any entity; (c) rights, options or derivatives in respect of such debentures, stocks or
shares; (d) rights under a contract for differences or under any other contract with the purpose or
pretended purpose to secure a profit or avoid a loss; or (e) units or derivatives in a collective
investment scheme or business trust, or any other type of securities.

6.2. Restrictions on Distribution and Dissemination
(a)

The distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper or any part thereof may be

prohibited or restricted by the laws or regulatory requirements of any jurisdiction. In the case where
any restriction applies, you are to inform yourself about, to obtain legal and other relevant advice on,
and to observe, any restrictions which are applicable to your possession of this Whitepaper or such
part thereof (as the case may be) at your own expense and without liability to Carry or its
representatives, agents, and related companies (“Affiliates”).
(b)

Persons to whom a copy of this Whitepaper has been distributed or disseminated,

provided access to or who otherwise have the Whitepaper in their possession shall not circulate it to
any other persons, reproduce or otherwise distribute this Whitepaper or any information contained
herein for any purpose whatsoever nor permit or cause the same to occur.

6.3. Disclaimer of Liability
(a)

The CRE and related services provided by Carry and its Affiliates are provided on an “as

is” and “as available” basis. Carry and its Affiliates do not grant any warranties or make any
representation, express or implied or otherwise, as to the accessibility, quality, suitability, accuracy,
adequacy, or completeness of the CRE or any related services provided by Carry and its Affiliates,
and expressly disclaim any liability for errors, delays, or omissions in, or for any action taken in
reliance on, the CRE and related services provided by Carry and its Affiliates.

carryprotocol.io

34

(b)

Carry and its Affiliates do not make or purport to make, and hereby disclaim, any

representation, warranty or undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person, including
any representation, warranty or undertaking in relation to the truth, accuracy and completeness of
any of the information set out in this Whitepaper.
(c)

To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws and regulations, Carry and its

Affiliates shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any
kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or profits,
and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection with any acceptance of or reliance on this
Whitepaper or any part thereof by you.

6.4. Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements
(a)

Certain information set forth in this Whitepaper includes forward-looking information

regarding the future of the project, future events and projections. These statements are not
statements of historical fact and may be identified by but not limited to words and phrases such as
“will”, “estimate”, “believe”, “expect”, “project”, “anticipate”, or words of similar meaning. Such
forward-looking statements are also included in other publicly available materials such as
presentations, interviews, videos etc., information contained in this Whitepaper constitutes
forward-looking statements including but not limited to future results, performance, or
achievements of Carry or its Affiliates.
(b)

The forward-looking statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties. These

statements are not guarantees of future performance and no undue reliance should be placed on
them. Should any of these risks or uncertainties materialise, the actual performance and progress of
Carry or its Affiliates might differ from expectations set by the forward-looking statements. Carry or
its Affiliates undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements should there be any
change in circumstances. By acting upon forward-looking information received from this
Whitepaper, Carry or its Affiliates’ website and other materials produced by Carry or its Affiliates,
you personally bear full responsibility in the event where the forward-looking statements do not
materialize.
(c)

As of the date of this Whitepaper, the Carry Protocol platform has not been completed and

is not fully operational. Any description pertaining to and regarding the Carry Protocol platform is
made on the basis that the Carry Protocol platform will be completed and be fully operational.
However, this paragraph shall in no way be construed as providing any form of guarantee or
assurance that the Carry Protocol platform will eventually be completed or be fully operational.

carryprotocol.io

35

6.5. Potential Risks
(a)

Please carefully read every piece of information, understand and analyse the risks and

related factors before deciding to participate and purchase the CRE. The risks include, but are not
limited to:
(i) risk of losing access to CRE due to loss of identification information, loss of requisite private
key(s) associated with the digital wallet storing the CRE or any other kind of custodial or
purchaser errors;
(ii) fluctuations of the value of CRE post-issuance due to the general global market and economic
conditions. Such volatility in the value of the CRE may lead to Carry not being able to fund the
development of the Carry Protocol ecosystem, or may not be able to maintain the Carry Protocol
ecosystem in the manner intended;
(iii) changes in political, social, economic and stock or cryptocurrency market conditions, and
the regulatory environment in the countries in which Carry or its Affiliates conduct their
businesses and operations, and the ability of Carry or its Affiliates to survive or compete under
such conditions. It is possible that certain jurisdictions will apply existing regulations on, or
introduce new regulations addressing, blockchain technology, which may be contrary to the CRE
and/or the Carry Protocol ecosystem which may, inter alia, result in substantial modifications of
the Carry Protocol ecosystem and the Carry Protocol project, including termination and loss of
CRE;
(iv) changes in the future capital needs of Carry or its Affiliates and the availability of financing
and capital to fund such needs. A lack of funding could impact the development of the Carry
Protocol platform and the uses or potential value of the CRE;
(v) for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, an unfavorable fluctuation in the value
of CRE, the failure of business relationships or competing intellectual property claims during
development or operation, the Carry Protocol project may no longer be a viable activity and may
be dissolved or simply not launched, negatively impacting the Carry Protocol ecosystem, the CRE
and the potential utility of the CRE;
(vi) the lack of interest from large number of companies, individuals and other organizations for
the Carry Protocol platform and services and that there may be limited public interest in the
creation and development of distributed applications. Such a lack of interest could lead to a lack
of funding and also impact the development of the Carry Protocol platform and the uses or
potential value of the CRE;
(vii) significant changes made to the features or specifications of the CRE or the Carry Protocol
platform before the release or implementation of the Carry Protocol project and/or the Carry
Protocol ecosystem. While Carry intends for the CRE and the Carry Protocol ecosystem to function
as described in the Whitepaper, Carry may nevertheless make such changes;

carryprotocol.io

36

(viii) competition from alternative platforms that may have been established, which could
potentially adversely impact the CRE and the Carry Protocol platform (e.g. lack of commercial
success or prospects caused by competing projects);
(ix) interference with the use of CRE and the infrastructure of the Carry Protocol platform due to
any weaknesses or malware that may be intentionally or unintentionally introduced into the
software of the Carry Protocol platform, whether or not by a third party. The blockchain used for
the platform is also vulnerable to attacks which pose a risk to the platform and the performance of
related services;
(x) occurrences of catastrophic events, natural disasters and acts of God that affect the
businesses or operations of Carry or its Affiliates and other factors beyond the control of Carry or
its Affiliates. This includes mining attacks, attacks by hackers or other individuals that could
result in theft or loss of proceeds of the CRE sale, or the CRE and impacting the ability to develop
the Carry Protocol ecosystem;
(xi) CRE and other cryptocurrencies are a new, untested technology and constantly developing.
The full functionality of the CRE are not yet complete and no assurance can be provided of such
completion. As technology matures, developments in cryptographic technologies and techniques
or changes in consensus protocol or algorithms could present risks to the CRE, the CRE sale, the
Carry Protocol project and/or the Carry Protocol ecosystem, including the utility of the CRE;
(xii) CRE confer no governance rights of any kind with respect to the Carry Protocol project, the
Carry Protocol ecosystem and/or Carry and all decisions will be made by Carry at its sole
discretion, including decisions to discontinue the Carry’s products or services, the Carry Protocol
project and/or Carry Protocol ecosystem to create and sell more CRE for use in the Carry Protocol
ecosystem or to sell or liquidate Carry; and
(xiii) The tax treatment and accounting of the CRE is uncertain and may vary amongst
jurisdictions. There may be adverse tax consequences and independent tax advice in connection
with purchasing CRE should be obtained.
In addition to the risks stipulated above, there are other risks that Carry and its Affiliates cannot
predict. Risks may also occur as unanticipated combinations or as changes in the risks stipulated
herein.
(b)

If any of such risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, the business, financial

condition, results of operations and prospects of Carry or its Affiliates could be materially and
adversely affected. In such cases, you may lose all or part of the value of the CRE.

carryprotocol.io

37

6.6. No Further Information or Update
No person has been or is authorised to give any information or representation not contained in this
Whitepaper in connection with the CRE, Carry or its Affiliates and their respective businesses and
operations, and, if given, such information or representation must not be relied upon as having been
authorised by or on behalf of Carry or its Affiliates.

6.7. No Advice
No information in this Whitepaper should be considered to be business, legal, financial or tax advice
regarding the CRE, Carry or its Affiliates. You should consult your own legal, financial, tax or other
professional advisor(s) regarding the CRE, Carry or its Affiliates and their respective businesses and
operations. You should be aware that you may be required to bear the financial risk of any purchase
of CRE for an indefinite period of time.

carryprotocol.io

7.

38

Contacts

General Inquiries
contact@carryprotocol.io
TGE Participation Inquiries
contribute@carryprotocol.io

