PLATFORM WHITEPAPER
Version : 2.1

This whitepaper is a working document that is subject to review and change

2

Content
1. Legal Disclaimer

3

2. Executive Summary

6

3. Vision and Mission

7

4. Problem

8

4.1 Banks & Financial Institutions

8

4.2 Businesses and Individuals

9

5. Solution

10

6. Banking products

11

6.1 Hybrid account

12

6.2 Debit Cards

13

6.3 Card Processing

14

6.4 Crypto payment gateway

16
17

7. About Cashaa

19

7.1 Team

20

7.2 Awards & Recognitions

21

7.3 Media Appreciations

21

8. Roadmap

22

9. Token

24

9.1 What is CAS?

25

9.2 Token Utility

25

10. Further Information

26

3

1.

Legal Disclaimer

The CAS Token Sale was completed in Jan 2018. This updated white paper is for
informational purposes only and does not constitute any legal relations between you and
Cashaa Holding OU and its aﬃliates (collectively referred to as “Cashaa”). This
whitepaper is a working document that is subject to review and changes.

Translations
This whitepaper and related materials are issued in English. Any translation is for
reference purposes only and is not certiﬁed by any person. If there is any inconsistency
between a translation and the English version of this whitepaper, the English version
prevails.

Eligible participants
Eligibility for participation in the initiatives described in this whitepaper (if and when
completed) is not guaranteed and is likely to be subject to legal and regulatory
restrictions. Citizens or residents of countries where crypto is illegal or regulated entities
are ineligible to participate in Cashaa.com initiatives.

No representations
No representations or warranties have been made to the recipient or its advisers as to
the accuracy or completeness of the information, statements, opinions or matters
(express or implied) arising out of, contained in or derived from this whitepaper or any
omission from this document or of any other written or oral information or opinions
provided now or in the future to any interested party or their advisers. No representation
or warranty is given as to the achievement or reasonableness of any plans, future
projections or prospects and nothing in this document is or should be relied upon as a
promise or representation as to the future. To the fullest extent possible, all liability for
any loss or damage of whatsoever kind (whether foreseeable or not) which may arise
from any person acting on any information and opinions contained in this whitepaper or
any information which is made available in connection with any further enquiries,
notwithstanding any negligence, default or lack of care, is disclaimed.

Restricted transmission
This whitepaper must not be taken or transmitted to any jurisdiction where distribution
or dissemination of this whitepaper is prohibited or restricted.

4
No review by any regulatory authority
This whitepaper has not been reviewed by any regulatory authority.

Third party references
References in this whitepaper to speciﬁc companies, networks and/ or potential use
cases are for illustrative purposes only. The use of any company and/or platform names
and trademarks does not imply any aﬃliation with, or endorsement by, any of those
parties.
All references to ‘dollars’, USD or ‘$’ are references to United States dollars unless
otherwise stated.

Graphics
All graphics included in this whitepaper are for illustrative purpose only. In particular,
graphics with price reference do not translate into actual pricing information.

Risk statements
Cryptographic tokens may be subject to expropriation and/or theft; hackers or other
malicious groups or organizations may attempt to interfere with our system/network in
various ways, including malware attacks, denial of service attacks, consensus-based
attacks, Sybil attacks, smurﬁng, and spooﬁng which may result in the loss of your
cryptographic tokens, the loss of your ability to access or control your cryptographic
tokens. In such event, there may be no remedy, and holders of cryptographic tokens are
not guaranteed any remedy, refund, or compensation.
The regulatory status of cryptographic tokens and digital assets is currently unsettled,
varies among jurisdictions and subject to signiﬁcant uncertainty. It is possible that in the
future, certain laws, regulations, policies or rules relating to cryptographic tokens, digital
assets, blockchain technology, or blockchain applications may be implemented which
directly or indirectly affect or restrict cryptographic token holders’ right to acquire, own,
hold, sell, convert, trade, or use cryptographic tokens.
The uncertainty in tax legislation relating to cryptographic tokens and digital assets may
expose cryptographic token holders to tax consequences associated with the use or
trading of cryptographic token.

5
Digital assets and ﬁnancial products and services carry signiﬁcant risks. Potential
purchasers should assess the nature of, and their own appetite for, relevant risks
independently and consult their advisers before making any decisions.

Caution regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This whitepaper contains certain statements that are forward-looking, by their nature,
subject to signiﬁcant risks and uncertainties. Our forward-looking statements are based
on information currently available to us about the business that we operate.
Forward-looking statements may involve estimates and assumptions and are subject to
risks, uncertainties and other factors beyond our control and prediction. Accordingly,
these factors could cause actual results or outcomes that differ materially from those
expressed in the forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of which such statement is
made, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reﬂect
events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reﬂect
the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Licenses and approvals are not assured in all jurisdictions
The Company and its subsidiaries intend to operate in full compliance with applicable
laws and regulations and obtain the necessary licenses and approvals. This means that
the development and roll-out of all the initiatives described in this whitepaper are not
guaranteed. Regulatory licenses and/or approvals are likely to be required in a number of
relevant jurisdictions in which relevant activities may take place.
It is not possible to guarantee, and no person makes any assurances, that any such
licenses or approvals will be obtained within a particular timeframe or at all. This means
that the initiatives described in this whitepaper may not be available in certain markets,
or at all. This could require restructuring of these initiatives and/or its unavailability in all
or certain respects. In addition, the development of any initiatives is intended to be
implemented in stages. During certain stages of development, the project may rely on
relationships with certain licensed third party entities. If these entities are no longer
properly licensed in the relevant jurisdiction, this will impact the ability of the Company
to rely on the services of that party.

No advice
This whitepaper does not constitute advice to purchase CAS Tokens nor should it be
relied upon in connection with any other contract or purchasing decision.

6

2. Executive Summary
The global ﬁnancial crisis revealed signiﬁcant weaknesses in the existing ﬁnancial
system and some of the vulnerabilities already have shown their impact on the
interconnected global market. The world economy is still struggling with absolute slow
growth rates today. Transferring money for remittance, money lending across
international borders is still very complicated, time consuming and expensive. Existing
systems running on traditional banking channels are slow and complex with full of
intermediaries, higher exchange rates, counterparty risks, bureaucracy and extensive
paperwork. More than 3.5 billion people are still unbanked or underbanked and have few
opportunities to have a safe and secure way to participate in the global economy.
On-boarding this missing population to the beneﬁts of the global ﬁnancial system is key
in order to provide a sustainable solution for their future economic outlook.
The recent emergence of cryptocurrency tokens has shown a silver lining to evolve the
legacy systems. However, it turns out that consumers and businesses are struggling to
leverage the beneﬁts of the blockchain infrastructure due to poor usability, non customer
centric approach and improper legal implementation.

The Gap: Banking the Unbanked is primarily due to
Traditional, expensive and complicated banking infrastructure

Money has evolved over time during several civilizations and this change is happening again

User’s perspective towards the centralized systems and way to use them is changing

Poor and incomplete crypto solutions in terms of usability and legal framework

This whitepaper ﬁlls the gap between the existing ﬁnancial system and emerging
non-user friendly technologies by presenting a secure and simple way to use payments
and banking architecture that aims to lower the ﬁnancial inclusion barriers and provide
ﬁnancial services to the banked and unbanked.
Cashaa Holding completed a token sale in Jan 2018. This is not a fundraising document;
the project will be funded by Cashaa Holding. The objective of the Cashaa Whitepaper
2.1 is to present our vision, product and strategy.

7

3. Vision & Mission
For the Next Billion users
Cashaa is about empowering the banked and unbanked business and individuals to
enable them to participate in the global economy and develop the new outlook for this
community by using open architecture. It is a great irony that the blockchain or crypto
community has continuously been denied access from existing ﬁnancial institutions due
to some inherent AML and compliance problems.
We ﬁrmly believe that there should be an eﬃcient alternative to the existing payments
and banking system and are thereby working over some fundamental principles
dedicated to bank the unbanked by providing better support for easy adoption of future
money. Furthermore, we are committed to accelerate the growth of digital innovation by
bringing Cashaa SDK and Open API into the ecosystem. Thus, embracing the
decentralisation.

In the next 2 year

In the next 5 years

Launch the world ﬁrst
crypto friendly banking
for Individuals and
Business.

2023

YEAR

YEAR

2020

To become the world’s
predominant and ﬁrst
choice Bank for
businesses and
individuals involved in
emerging technologies

8

4. Vision & Mission
The primary role of blockchain technology was to solve coordination and
synchronization problems amongst multilateral agreements between a network of
participants, but it seems that these multiple blockchains are now giving a hard time to
“real users” and have become a bottleneck for mainstream adoption. The current
attempts to provide blockchain-based solutions lack the workﬂow needs of small and
medium sized enterprises.

4.1 For Banks & Financial Institutions

1

Operating on a traditional rail infrastructure, where moving
money requires huge processing efforts. One of the main
reasons for friction is that information is siloed between the
players in the industry.

2

Lack of knowledge and functional understanding of digital
assets; the existing banking industry stayed in denial mode for
a long time to accept the revolution coming due to technologies
like Bitcoin etc.

3

Lack of infrastructure to support crypto transactions: The
existing centralized banking system running on mainframe is
now facing the challenge to adopt to the sudden growth of
decentralised assets.

4

Lack of AML and Compliance API for crypto transactions; the
existing banking system was made for monitoring only national
currency transactions which are not enough to ensure crypto
transactions are compliant.

9
4.1 For Business and Personal Users

1

No crypto friendly banking system:

2

Accounting and auditing issues:

3

Security of digital assets:

4

Due to uncertainty in framework, infrastructure and denial from
high street banks.

Use of multiple unidentiﬁed addresses and accounts are
becoming a nightmare for legit businesses and individuals.

Cryptographic tokens pose an irreversible threat if not managed
properly, which has been the thickest hindrance to its adoption.

Convertibility of digital assets:
We can not ignore the fact that we still need a bridge to move
back and forth until we fully adopt the cryptographic money
system.

10

5. Solutions
The world needs one account for the old and new emerging money system. A banking
platform which addresses the complexity and challenges of regulators, central banks,
individuals and businesses (banked or unbanked) to successfully help mankind to move
into a new era of trust.

The world needs Cashaa’s solution!!
A global multi currency crypto-friendly banking platform

11

6. Products
As a product-driven ﬁntech company, our focus is to solve the problems using disruptive
technologies to create products and services for simple and easy use. Cashaa’s single
sign-on website & mobile application will allow users to access international bank
account, crypto assets with linked cards. In the ﬁrst version, a hosted web service will
be released, followed by Android and iOS applications.

One account for
old and new money
JOIN THE MONEY REVOLUTION

12
6.1 Hybrid accounts “Better than Bank account”
Get an account which is better than any existing bank account in the world, for all your
local and international banking. Whatever your need, we make it easy by providing you
with an exceptional online banking experience.
Fully integrated with local payment networks such as FPS, SEPA, ACH, NEFT, Wire, RTGS,
SWIFT and many more for the transfer of existing central bank issued currencies.
Cashaa account will also handle the new generation of asset class such like Bitcoin,
Ethereum, Ripple, Litecoin, Tether and Cashaa native coin.
Licensed and regulated.

Business Account

Personal Account

15
AML and Fraud detections on address
Cashaa Multisig wallets comes with inbuilt AML and Compliance system, which analyze
transaction patterns on the Blockchain address. It uses multiple risk indicators,
behavioral analysis and data science techniques, to prepare a report which warns you
before you start transacting with any address involve in any crime, or suspicious activity.
For Business users this feature will help them to save from suffering from business
discontinuity loss, lawsuits etc. due to involvement with a criminal or suspected
address.

Grade

Reason

Action

A

Not related in any suspicious activity

Allowed

B

Not directly related in any suspicious activity

Allowed but remained ﬂagged

F

Involved in suspicious activity

Not allowed

(C Score)

*We recommend our users to verify the address before receiving payment from it.

Buy and Sell Cryptocurrencies
Digital convertibility is one of the major challenges which the crypto industry is facing.
Digital exchanges require a lot of intermediaries and thereby a very cumbersome
process. Cashaa CMC Wallet integrated with world most high volume exchanges to get
the best price and availability.

Competitive Advantages
1.

One account for store, convert digital assets and transfer across the globe

2.

Our technology will make all cryptocurrencies ultra-safe and secure

3.

Easy to use without worrying of losing keys with full control of crypto

4.

One account to access your cryptocurrencies and IBAN funds

5.

Check on each transaction to protect you to transact with risky address

6.

Crypto wallet integration with banking Removes accounting & auditing issues

7.

No Fee for Cashaa community members on buying or selling digital assets

8.

High liquidity due to integration with multiple exchanges

9.

Multiple payment options including IBAN accounts, Bank transfer or
Credit/debit cards

13
6.2 Cards
Card will complement the cashaa account which will allow to connect virtual assets with
global payment networks. Currently Cards will be accepted by more than 39 Million
merchants as well as POS terminals, the adoption of which is growing exponentially with
3 Million existing ATMs which enable to withdraw cash worldwide.

Free transfer to other account holders
Immediately block your card in case it is lost or stolen
Worldwide access with higher withdrawal limits

* Cards linked to UK current account can only be issued to companies or users based in Europe & UK

16
6.4 Card Processing
6.4.1 Sell Crypto with Credit and Debit Card
Enable your customers to pay using credit and debit card to have a familiar e-commerce
experience.

Settling 14 currencies, including:

Enjoy a seamless onboarding experience.

Online application portal

Compliance and risk checks

Multilingual support available

Completed in 72 hours

Transparency at every stage

Training for partners

Partners informed of every stage of the
on-boarding process

So you receive the full beneﬁt of our
services

6.4.2 Turn key crypto sale solution
Cashaa solution offers end-to-end process management that enables your users to buy
crypto via debit or credit card. Through seamless integration with Cashaa solution, you
can easily expand your business with zero risk involved. Tailored to match your
company’s look and feel, the checkout process allows users to buy crypto easily. With
Cashaa integrated solution, you gain new users and improve user retention immediately,
without the need to handle ﬁat money or go through bank onboarding.

* Some or part of services given by third party provider

17
6.5 Crypto payment gateway

Keep more of your Money
Credit cards take up to 3% in processing fees on every transaction.
Accept Bitcoin and CAS with Cashaa and get direct bank deposits in your
own currency for a simple, ﬂat 1% settlement charge.

End chargeback fraud and identity theft
Other payment methods force customers and businesses to shoulder the
risks and costs of payment fraud. With Bitcoin and CAS, customers can
pay without handing over sensitive personal information, and refunds are
made through the merchant — no chargebacks.

Sell to anyone, anywhere
Connect to truly borderless payment networks with Bitcoin and CAS.
Receive payments in any amount, from anywhere in the world, from any
computer or mobile device.

18
Billing

E-commerce

Donation

Retail

Accept bill
payments across
borders.

Accept payments
from online
customers at
checkout.

Accept donations
from patrons with
Bitcoin and CAS.

Accept payments in
your retail shop or
restaurant.

Accept Bitcoin payments anywhere

On your Website

By Email

In Person

Accept Bitcoin payments
and donations from your
online customers.

Send invoices to vendors
as quickly and easily as
sending an email.

Accept Bitcoin in your
retail store or restaurant
on your smartphone or
tablet.

Accept Bitcoin & Get Paid
Receive funds into your bank
account
Expand your payment options by
accepting instant BTC and ETH
payments without risk or price
ﬂuctuations.

Bank deposits enabled in 200
countries
Receive funds directly to your bank
account in 200+ local currencies.

19

7. About Cashaa
Cashaa, founded in 2016, has built a Blockchain-powered ﬁntech platform to bank the
underbanked.

Started in
2016

Based in Europe top ﬁntech
accelerator in London, UK

Oﬃces

Level 39,
One Canada Square,
Canary Wharf,
London E14 5AB

Cashaa Holding OÜ,
Tina 9, 10126
Tallinn,
Estonia

ATL CORPORATE PARK,
614, 6TH FLOOR,
Mumbai,
Maharashtra 400076

Community

6,017

16.5 K

12.8 K

Members

Members

Members

20
7.1 Team

Our team is comprised of the
best, brightest and most
passionate people in the
industry sharing the same
vision of making blockchain
applications simple and
accessible for the masses.
Our team has more than
200+ years of payments and
banking experience
combined, which includes
executives from Fortune 100
technology companies, a
central bank and top
academic institutions.

Team of 22 experienced
engineers & bankers from

Lead by Kumar Gaurav, Founder & CEO
Kumar is an Indian serial entrepreneur who was awarded an extraordinary status by the
United States government for excelling his work on Blockchain technology. He is
currently the CEO of Cashaa and the Chairman of Auxesis Group.
Kumar is a popular international speaker and innovator who has grown his own suﬃx of
technology and was felicitated by IIT, IIM, ISB, YPO, Money2020, TechCrunch, EU
Parliament and many conferences and universities across the globe. He was recently
nominated among the World's Top 50 Innovators from the Industries of the future market
and tech era.
To know more about his life and work visit www.kumargaurav.com

21
7.2 Awards & Recognitions

Open Innovation
Ranked Top 20th
Most Inﬂuential
Blockchain Company

Top 3
Finalist of BBVA Open
Talent for “Fintech for People”

Top 50
Emerging Fintech
business in 2018

Europe Hottesh
Crypto Finance
Project in 2018

Featured
as upcoming Fintech
Startup from Europe in 2018

Awarded Technology
Provider of
the Year for SME in 2018

7.3 Media

22

8. Roadmap
Licensing and regulatory
affairs started

Jan - Mar
Registration of Business for
Beta use
Non custodial crypto wallet

Apr - Jun

Crypto Trade desk in UK and
Europe
CAS migration to Binance Chain

Staking for Quarterly Bonus

Issued UK current account,
Powered by Enumis

Jul - Sep

Formation of Pre-compliance
team

Launch of Crypto Trading
Platform for India

Oct - Dec

Enabling EURO IBAN Banking,
Powered by ZIPP
Card processing,
Powered by Paysafe

Note

This roadmap is indicative of our future plan. The implementation of our initiatives may be subject to factors that
are beyond our control; in such case, there may be changes or delay to the delivery timeline.

23
Roadmap
Integration of Cashaa wallet
with Binance Chain
Addition of Stable Coin in our
services

Jan - Mar (2020)

CAS Exchange Listing

Apr - Jun (2020)

Regulatory approval for Cashaa
Banking Platform (Delayed)
Cashaa Banking Platform (India)
Moved to 2021

US Banking services
(Business)
Cashaa
Banking
Platform
Cashaa
Banking
Platform
(Business)
(Business)

July - Sep (2020)

Cashaa Banking Platform
(Personal)

VISA card Issuance

Instant International
Transfers and FX services

Oct - Dec (2020)
CAS utility in the Banking
Platform

Note

This roadmap is indicative of our future plan. The implementation of our initiatives may be subject to factors that
are beyond our control; in such case, there may be changes or delay to the delivery timeline.

24

9. Token

Token Symbol

CAS

Token Contract Address

bnb1xkw2sagpx6t0cmwzapxpv94tupvqk7tpgy72ku

Token Total Supply

1,000,000,000 CAS

Total Circulating Supply

880,000,000 CAS

Total Locked

120,000,000 CAS

All ERC 20- CAS has Swapped with BEP-2 CAS

25
9.1 What is CAS?
CAS, or Cashaa coin is a cryptocurrency created by Cashaa.
Cashaa (CAS) powers the Cashaa banking ecosystem. As the
native coin of the Cashaa platform, CAS has multiple utilities
such as application processing fees, discounted international
wire, exchange fees, transaction fees
CAS - 167

9.2 Token Utility

Banking (Business)

Account Limit (Business)

Crypto Exchange Fee

Fees to activate the
crypto friendly banking.

Account limits,is decided
based on CAS holding

Get 25 % discount by
paying in CAS.

Transaction fees

Int. transfer fees and FX

Get 25 % discount by
paying in CAS.

Huge discount on
International transfers

Banking (Personal)
Staking to activate the
personal banking accounts.

27

10. Information
Cashaa and CAS token information available at:

www.cashaa.com

/cashaa

/yourCashaa

/cashaaLTD

/yourcashaa

/company/cashaaLTD

/cashaanews

/cashaaLTD
(Community Managed, not oﬃcial )

