Caspian
Whitepaper
v1.1 May 2018

www.caspian.tech

Legal Disclaimer
This whitepaper and other documents published in association with this whitepaper relate to the CSP token project. These documents
may be amended or replaced at any time, without notiﬁcation of any changes or access to any additional information.
Recipients are notiﬁed as follows:
●

●
●

●

●
●

●

●

●
●

This whitepaper contains forward-looking statements that are based on the beliefs of Caspian, Ltd. ("Caspian"), as well as
certain assumptions made by and information available to Caspian. The Caspian project as envisaged in this whitepaper is
under development and is being constantly updated, including but not limited to key governance and technical features. The
CSP token (as described in this whitepaper) involves and relates to the development and use of experimental platforms
(software) and technologies that may not come to fruition or achieve the objectives speciﬁed in this whitepaper. When the CSP
platform is completed, it may differ from the platform set out in this whitepaper.
Eligible purchasers: eligibility to participate in the Caspian project is not guaranteed and is likely to be subject to restrictions.
Regulatory status not assured in all jurisdictions: Caspian intends to operate in full compliance with applicable laws and
regulations and obtain the necessary licences and approvals in key markets. This means that the development and roll-out of
all the features of the CSP token and Caspian project described in this whitepaper are not guaranteed. Regulatory licences
and/or approvals may be required in certain jurisdictions in which relevant activities may take place. It is not possible to
guarantee, and no person makes any assurances, that any such licences or approvals will be obtained within a particular
timeframe or at all. This means that the Caspian platform and other features of the proposed CSP token may not be available in
certain markets, or at all. This could require restructuring of that ecosystem and/or its unavailability in all or certain respects.
In addition, the development of the platform is intended to be implemented in stages. During certain stages of development,
the platform may rely on relationships with certain licensed third party entities (such as exchanges). If these entities are no
longer properly licensed in the relevant jurisdiction, this will impact on the ability of the Caspian platform to engage with that
party or its services / functions.
No offer of regulated products or services: the CSP token is not intended to constitute a security or any other regulated product
or service in any jurisdiction. This whitepaper does not constitute a prospectus nor offer document of any sort and is not
intended to constitute an offer or solicitation of securities or any other investment or other product or service in any
jurisdiction. Any offer or agreement in relation to any sale and purchase, of CSP tokens is to be governed solely by a separate
document setting out the terms and conditions (“Ts&Cs”) of such agreement. In the event of any inconsistencies between the
Ts&Cs and this whitepaper, the former shall prevail.
No advice: this whitepaper does not constitute advice to purchase any CSP tokens nor should it be relied upon in connection
with any contract or purchasing decision.
No representations: no representations or warranties have been made to the recipient or its advisers as to the accuracy or
completeness of the information, statements, opinions or matters (express or implied) arising out of, contained in or derived
from this whitepaper or any omission from this document or of any other written or oral information or opinions provided now
or in the future to any interested party or their advisers. No representation or warranty is given as to the achievement or
reasonableness of any plans, future projections or prospects and nothing in this document is or should be relied upon as a
promise or representation as to the future. To the fullest extent possible, all liability for any loss or damage of whatsoever kind
(whether foreseeable or not) which may arise from any person acting on any information and opinions contained in this
whitepaper or any information which is made available in connection with any further enquiries, notwithstanding any
negligence, default or lack of care, is disclaimed.
Risk warning: the purchase of CSP tokens carries with it signiﬁcant risks. Potential purchasers should assess the nature of, and
their own appetite for, relevant risks independently and consult their advisers before making a decision to purchase any CSP
tokens.
Translations: this whitepaper and related materials are issued in English. Any translation is for reference purposes only and is
not certiﬁed by any person. If there is any inconsistency between a translation and the English version of this whitepaper, the
English version prevails.
Restricted transmission: this whitepaper must not be taken or transmitted to any jurisdiction where distribution or
dissemination of this whitepaper is prohibited or restricted.
No third party afﬁliation or endorsements: references in this whitepaper to speciﬁc companies and platforms are for illustrative
purposes only. Other than Caspian, Tora and Kenetic, the use of any company and/or platform names and trademarks does not
imply any afﬁliation with, or endorsement by, any of those parties.

Abstract
1

The digital asset space has seen explosive growth over the past year, with average daily
exchange-trading volume across all crypto assets surpassing 18 billion USD equivalent
and total estimated market cap for blockchain instruments exceeding 325 billion USD
equivalent as of April 2018.1 Over 200 crypto-focused hedge funds have been formed as
of February 2018, while traditional trading houses continue to express interest in
increasing their exposure to blockchain assets.2 But crypto investors continue to lack a
number of crucial tools that will be necessary for the space to achieve its potential. Key
among these are professional-grade trade execution, compliance, position and risk
management, and reporting functionality.
The large number of digital asset exchanges helps drive the growth of the market while
simultaneously exacerbating its challenges. Currently, crypto investors are forced to
choose among many exchanges when executing various trades. Often, portfolios
develop positions on multiple trading platforms with varying user interfaces and
functionality. Executing orders across these various exchanges is often difﬁcult.
Position and risk management are likewise made more challenging by the diversity of
platforms that must often be used to trade for a single portfolio. Because it is difﬁcult
to harmonize the outputs of different platforms, meeting reporting and compliance
requirements can present signiﬁcant obstacles for crypto investors as well.
Caspian is a joint venture between Tora Trading Services Limited (and its afﬁliates,
“Tora”), a global leading cloud-based front-to-back technology provider to buy side
institutions; and Kenetic Trading Systems Limited (together with its afﬁliates,
“Kenetic”), a leading blockchain and cryptocurrency investment ﬁrm. It provides
institutional and experienced investors with a full-stack crypto trading and risk
management platform. It equips digital assets investors with a comprehensive Order
and Execution Management System (OEMS), Position Management System (PMS), and
Risk Management System (RMS), backed by experienced support team. The platform,
which has the potential to drive further participation in crypto-trading, provides
sophisticated connectivity and interoperability across various digital asset exchanges.
On the back end, it offers uniﬁed compliance and reporting functionality that enables
users to analyze all of their trades in one place, regardless of which exchange they take
place on.

Contents
Legal Disclaimer
1

2

1

(17 April 2018) Coinmarketcap.com <https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/volume/24-hour/>

Maya Keidan, Jemima Kelly, Number of crypto hedge funds surges amid bitcoin volatility (15 February 2018) Reuters
<https://www.reuters.com/article/uk-hedgefunds-bitcoin/number-of-crypto-hedge-funds-surges-amid-bitcoin-volatility-id
USKCN1FZ189>

2

Abstract

2

Contents

3

Problem: Current Market Challenges

4

Unreliable Trade Execution

4

Lack of Security

5

Lack of Reporting and Compliance

5

Solution: An Institutional Grade Crypto Trading Platform

7

Team Overview

8

Key Features and Beneﬁts

10

Execution

10

Position & Risk Management

11

Compliance and Reporting

12

Technical Summary

14

Architecture

14

Performance

15

Scalability

15

Reliability

15

Security

16

Support

16

Ongoing development and adaptability

16

Audit

17

Modularity and Third-Party Integration

17

Business Plan and Growth Strategy

18

Provisional 12-Month Roadmap

19

Token Ecosystem

20

Token Model Overview and Objectives

20

Commission Discount Function

21

User to User Utility Accelerating Third-Party Development

22

Governance Nodes

24

Staking Token for Basic Access and App Rental

24

Contact Caspian

25

Problem: Current Market Challenges
3

The digital asset space has grown
exponentially since Bitcoin launched in
2009. As of April 2018, average daily trading
volume across all digital asset exchanges
exceeded 18 billion USD equivalent, with
total estimated market cap for blockchain
instruments surpassing 325 billion USD
equivalent.3 Market analysts expect that
number to grow to 10 trillion USD equivalent
by 2033.4 While the size of the crypto space
remains small compared to traditional asset
classes, the growth in this sector is
unparalleled.
More than 200 exchanges are currently
active.5 Of these, ﬁve exceed 1 billion USD
equivalent in daily trading volume, and 19
have more than 100 million USD equivalent
daily trading volume.6 It would be almost
impossible to attempt to list all of the tokens
that have been issued to date. The top 16
coins alone each have market caps of over 1
billion USD equivalent, and among those,
four coins see a daily volume of more than a
billion USD equivalent7.
It is therefore reasonable to expect
fragmentation of both tokens and exchanges
to be a persistent feature of blockchain
markets in the near to medium term.

3

(17 April 2018) Coinmarketcap.com
<https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/volume/24-hour
/>
4

Evelyn Chang, One stock analyst's $10 trillion bull case
for cryptocurrencies (4 January 2018) CNBC
<https://www.cnbc.com/2018/01/03/one-stock-analysts-1
0-trillion-bull-case-for-cryptocurrencies.html>
5
(17 April 2018) Coinmarketcap.com
<https://coinmarketcap.com/exchanges/volume/24-hou
r/all/>.
6
(17 April 2018) Coinmarketcap.com
<https://coinmarketcap.com/exchanges/volume/24-hou
r/all/>
7
(17 April 2018) Coinmarketcap.com
<https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/volume/24-hour
/>

Unreliable Trade Execution
Executing trades in the crypto market
currently poses a number of challenges, of
varying complexity, to investors. At a basic
level, the current fragmentation of digital
asset exchanges, coupled with relatively low
trading volumes compared to traditional
markets, often creates problems around
liquidity and slippage. Even comparatively
small order sizes have the potential to
consume
available
liquidity,
causing
signiﬁcant slippage from the current market
price. This can lead to high trading costs for
market participants.
Because most existing digital asset
exchanges began as small ventures and
have grown organically as the market has
surged, they often cannot handle large order
volumes. As a result, exchanges often suffer
from high latency.
In the case of
institutional traders in particular, this has
the potential to undermine investment
strategies if it causes delays in executing
trades.
Additionally, because of the grassroots
origins of most incumbent exchanges,
outages often occur as a result of the
stresses of high trading volumes. There have
been numerous cases of users being locked
out of exchanges, in some cases for days,
due to technical difﬁculties.8 In many cases,
exchanges lack adequate customer support,
which can increase frustration on the part of
traders.

8

Olga Kharif, Biggest Crypto Exchanges Hit by Delays
With Demand Surging (30 November 2017) Bloomberg
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-11-29/bi
ggest-u-s-crypto-exchange-hit-by-delays-as-demand-su
rges)

4

Beyond periodic performance failures,
trading, particularly across both traditional
and digital asset venues, presents a number
of other difﬁculties. Regulated exchanges
now list instruments such as crypto futures,
and we expect this trend to accelerate as
publicly-traded companies increase their
exposure
to
crypto
and
additional
derivatives arise. This requires purchasers
to have the ability to access both traditional
and digital asset exchanges and to ﬂuidly
exchange ﬁat for digital assets and
vice-versa. Many of these products are also
highly regulated and may not be available
lawfully.
The ability to rebalance portfolios presents
another challenge for investors trading
across disparate exchanges. Traditionally,
rebalancing is a tool used by investors to
ensure that trades are made that maintain
certain allocation targets across a portfolio
that is constantly ﬂuctuating. In the digital
asset space, the fragmentation of exchanges
makes this difﬁcult, because no platform
currently exists that can monitor capital
deployments
for
a
single
portfolio
transacting on multiple exchanges.

Lack of Security
All digital asset traders are aware of the
security risks that currently exist in
purchasing digital assets. Exchanges are
vulnerable to hackers, a risk that has been
born out in a series of thefts resulting in the
loss of over 4 billion USD equivalent since
2011.9 Existing exchanges lack many of the
customer protections offered by trading
9

Steve Stecklow, Chaos and hackers stalk investors on
cryptocurrency exchanges (29 September 2017) Reuters
(https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/bi
tcoin-exchanges-risks/)

platforms in traditional markets. These
include effective customer support and risk
management capabilities.
Risk management is a crucial element of
trading in any asset class, and it, takes on
added dimensions for the digital asset
space. These include the counterparty risk
that is present when transacting on any
individual exchange. Traders must make
contingencies to mitigate the likelihood that
an exchange will suddenly fail, taking
investor funds with it. Market participants
must also account for liquidity risk. The
fragmentation of the market leads to
situations in which there is insufﬁcient
liquidity on a given exchange to fully exit a
position.

Lack
of
Reporting
Compliance

and

All fund managers recognize the need for
strong compliance procedures. Crypto funds
are no exception, but the fragmentation that
exists among the various exchanges can
make satisfying these needs difﬁcult. The
aggregated information required is simply
not
available.
This
leaves
market
participants in difﬁcult circumstances in
which they must contrive individual
solutions to this problem. In some cases,
this can mean maintaining a spreadsheet to
keep track of a trader’s or fund’s various
investments, or developing their own
reference lists to determine current pricing
or other necessary metrics. This obviously
creates signiﬁcant risk of error.
Institutional entities are also required to
keep extensive audit records for both
internal and regulatory purposes. The
5

details are often granular to the level of
individual traders, triggers to pre-trade
limits, and order amendments. These
outputs are not available on most crypto
exchanges, and as a result, funds must build
proprietary systems at signiﬁcant expense
in order to monitor and log all activity.
Institutional investors must also provide
regular reports to other investors and
stakeholders regarding exposures, liquidity
risk, portfolio returns, value at risk,
summary of performance, and future
outlook. Current exchange fragmentation
can make this difﬁcult.
In addition to regulatory and reporting
requirements, investors need to be able to
monitor
their
positions
on
an
up-to-the-minute basis. Currently, they can
only achieve this by watching each platform

simultaneously.
There currently is no
consolidated
system
for
monitoring
positions across different exchanges.
As many funds are also sold through
regulated
entities
and/or
regulated
themselves, the quality and security of
custody, as well as other prudential
standards
such
as
ﬁnancial
crime
compliance are particularly important.
An opportunity clearly exists to provide
investors with the tools to address the
crypto market’s current shortcomings. As
the space grows and institutional players
increase
their
exposure
to
crypto
instruments, the demand for such tools will
grow stronger.

6

Solution: An Institutional Grade Crypto Trading
Platform
Caspian is an ecosystem designed to solve
the problems facing crypto investors using a
single, user-friendly interface. It achieves
this by providing sophisticated connectivity
and interoperability across various digital
asset exchanges. Caspian is expected to
drive further growth in digital asset
participation on the part of institutional and
experienced investors. Caspian equips
investors with a comprehensive OEMS, PMS
and RMS, backed by comprehensive
customer support. Its features include
professional-grade
execution,
position
management, and reporting capabilities.

Tora is a leading supplier of asset
management technology, including an
OEMS that averages monthly notional equity
volume exceeding US$100 billion and is
currently responsible for 17% of Japanese
institutional equity trading volume. The
company, with connectivity to over 150
equities and derivatives exchanges, as well
as clients in North America, Asia, Europe
and Australia, is ideally positioned to launch
Caspian, which will be the ﬁrst large-scale
institutional
infrastructure
speciﬁcally
aimed at traditional asset management
ﬁrms, and market makers.

Caspian is not designed to disrupt the
current digital asset space or to compete
with existing exchanges. Its purpose is to
support purchasing of
digital asset
instruments in a reliable manner to a large
number of entrants, helping to bring
liquidity, volume, and dynamism to the
sector.

With over six decades of collective
experience
building
and
managing
technology and trading systems, Caspian’s
senior management team is uniquely
positioned to build a strong, ﬂexible, secure
platform capable of attracting participation
on the part of major traders and market
makers. Caspian currently connects to over
10 major digital asset exchanges. The
platform plans to add up to forty additional
trading venues by Q3 2018. Additional
details can be found in the roadmap section
of this document.

Caspian is a joint venture between two ﬁrms,
Tora and Kenetic, each of which have
successful
track
records
in
asset
management and cryptocurrency investing.

7

Team Overview
Caspian’s senior management team brings decades of combined experience in ﬁnance and
technology. Members of the Caspian team have held senior roles at well-known investment
ﬁrms and technology companies, and several were early adopters of blockchain technology.
In their respective roles at Tora and Kenetic, they have proven their ability to work effectively
together building ﬁnancial and trading solutions that have achieved major success.
Michael Lerch, Chairman
Founder and CIO of Evolution Capital
Management, employing approximately 500
people. Founder of Tora. Prior to
founding Evolution, Mike worked in a
number of senior management and trading
positions at bulge bracket investment
banks. Mike holds a B.A. in Politics from
Princeton University.
Robert Dykes, CEO & Co-founder
Tora CEO for the past 14 years. Prior to that,
Robert spent 11 years in the enterprise
software and high-tech industry in Europe,
North America, and Asia at such companies
as WebPartner and Audiosoft. Robert holds a
B.A.
in
Economics
from
Princeton
University.
David Wills, COO & Co-founder
Kenetic COO since inception. Prior to that,
David spent 10 years as Managing Director
and Head of Asia Trading at Och-Ziff Capital
and was the former chairperson of HKeX
Hedge Fund market council. David holds a
B.A. in Psychology and B.Comm. in Finance
& Economics from the University of Sydney.

applications and analytical tools for various
hedge funds and bulge bracket investment
banks. Gerrit holds a B.S. in Computer
Science from Stanford University.
Paul Catuna, CFO
Tora CFO for the past 10 years. Prior to that,
Paul held senior ﬁnancial positions at
WAGIC, Intertop, and Isonics. Paul spent the
ﬁrst 9 years of his career in public
accounting, last serving as Senior Manager
at Deloitte. Paul holds a B.S. in Business –
Accounting from California State University,
Fresno and is a certiﬁed public accountant.
Jehan Chu, Chief Strategy Ofﬁcer
Co-founder and Managing Partner at
Kenetic. A former front-end developer with
over 10 years’ experience in web and
enterprise application development. Jehan
founded the Ethereum HK community
(2014),
and
co-founded
the
Bitcoin
Association of Hong Kong (2014). Jehan
holds a B.A. from Johns Hopkins University.

Gerrit van Wingerden, CTO & Co-founder
Managing Director at Tora for the past 12
years. Prior to that, Gerrit managed the
development of high volume trading
8

Beyond its experienced management team, Caspian is supported by the resources of both
partners in the joint venture, Tora and Kenetic. Between Tora’s leading OEMS global trading
platform and Kenetic’s industry-leading expertise in blockchain, the Caspian full-stack
digital asset management solution is backed by a full team of over 150 people.

9

Key Features and Beneﬁts

This section outlines the Caspian model as
currently envisaged and designed, but is
subject to modiﬁcation
Caspian effectively aggregates prices,
bid/ask information, orders, positions,
accounts, and executions from multiple
crypto exchanges and other sources,
presenting the information on a single
platform. It allows users to act on this
information by sending orders to exchanges
individually or using a Smart Order Router
based on existing Tora technology.

●

The beneﬁts of the Caspian platform can be
organized into three overarching categories
corresponding to the current needs of the
crypto-trading space: Execution, Position
Management, and Compliance. Further
enhancement plans are described in the
roadmap section of this document.10

●

Execution

●

OEMS: Caspian provides a uniﬁed control
center optimized for fast trading, which will
serve as the main hub for portfolio
managers and traders. It is based upon
technology built by Tora to serve its large
client base, and has been enhanced to cater
to the speciﬁc needs of the crypto space.
This single interface provides the following:
● Access to selected major digital asset
exchanges through a single interface.

●

●

●

●
10

Unless speciﬁed otherwise, all features described here
are available in the system as it is now, e.g. from day one.

For each speciﬁc exchange, OEMS
enables access to all order types, asset
types, and ticket sizes supported by a
given exchange.
APIs allowing traders to stage and send
orders and slices; obtain order,
execution, and position information;
and
receive
pricing
information,
exposure
breakdowns,
and other
transaction information. In the future,
the API will be enhanced to allow access
to margin information, additional Smart
Order Router (SOR) control, and other
metrics.
Ability to view prices, bid/ask, and
depths for each exchange to the
smallest available ticket size.
Ability to stage, send, and amend orders
in multiple ways, including single-click
orders sent directly from the price
depth; user-deﬁned order shortcuts; and
order staging and slicing.
Choice of whether and how to use
Caspian’s SOR.
Ability to stage order intentions as
parent orders, slicing them as child
orders that can be sent to different
exchanges separately or via Caspian’s
SOR. This can be used to optimize
slippage and liquidity consumption at
each exchange.
Messaging functionality for each
order-related action, communicating
any potential compliance breach.
Ability to view and manage margin
across multiple exchanges.
10

● Ability to view the progress of each
order or order slice. Users can receive
alerts about slippage or time-to-ﬁll,
allowing them to take action depending
on market conditions.
● Position information for each crypto
pair or instrument, enabling traders to
quickly react to market conditions using
Caspian liquidation features.
● Ability to utilize workﬂows across
multiple distinct users and user roles. A
single organization can assign different
roles to its members, e.g., portfolio
managers, traders, compliance ofﬁcers.
● Audit report generation for all activity in
the OEMS.
As part of its 12-month roadmap, Caspian
also plans to add pre-trade Transaction Cost
Analysis (TCA) checks to identify which
exchanges will be the most apt to execute
orders that need to get ﬁlled.
Smart Order Router (SOR): This module
enables users to view all exchanges as a
single pool of liquidity. The Smart Order
Router sends an order with a given objective
- for example, sell ETH and buy BTC within a
certain price limit - to multiple exchanges at
once in order to achieve quick execution
even in the case of large orders. The SOR
algorithm is smart enough to prioritize
exchanges based on criteria including price,
liquidity, and commission so that the best
outcome can be achieved with as little
slippage as possible.
Algorithms: Caspian builds upon Tora’s
algorithm framework and Kenetic’s trading
expertise to provide institutional-grade
algorithms from day one. Each order can be
assigned to a particular algorithm, which
can then route slices across multiple

exchange venues using Caspian’s smart
order routing logic. Traders can control the
behavior of a trading algorithm by applying
set parameters, and can monitor its
performance throughout the lifecycle of the
order. At the same time, more sophisticated
traders can also closely monitor all orders
that the algorithm engines slice to the
market. They can manually override order
parameters in order to ﬁne-tune the
behavior of a given algorithm.
User-built strategies: In addition to the
predeﬁned complex strategies offered in
Caspian’s algorithm suites, end users will
have the ability to deﬁne their own
strategies for managing orders using a
simple rule-based language. For example, a
user could create an order that executes if
the price of an asset increases by 10% or
more in an hour.
Alerts: Caspian offers a built-in mechanism
allowing clients to conﬁgure alerts, which
can appear as pop-ups or be delivered as
emails. Clients have the freedom to deﬁne
the conditions under which such alerts are
triggered, combining indicators, order
parameters, position data, and market data.
This logic is built on top of a proprietary
coding language similar to Excel functions.

Position & Risk Management
PMS and RMS: Caspian’s PMS and RMS
together allow users to monitor their
positions, P&Ls, and exposures and to
maintain detailed records of each. They sit
downstream from the OEMS, which sends
them all execution and order information.
While the OEMS is designed to be light and
nimble for fast trading, the PMS and RMS
record and track every piece of data in
11

perpetuity. This allows an investor to view
all of its positions and historical data at any
time.
Using these features, users can
maintain a complete book of records for a
given trading entity and can view the data in
real time or historically. In the future,
existing risk features from the Tora platform
will be ported to Caspian, including value at
risk, shift scenarios, and stress test
scenarios.
Reconciliations:
Caspian’s
detailed,
user-friendly recordkeeping functions make
it easy to perform reconciliations. In
traditional ﬁnance, the presence of multiple
counterparties,
including
brokers,
custodians,
and
fund administrators,
requires reconciliation among all parties to
ensure that all transactions have been
carried out as agreed. This is also true in the
digital asset space, where the difﬁculty or
impossibility of rolling back transactions
means the ability to recognize and correct
errors is critical.
Rebalancing: This function, currently being
ported over to Caspian as part of the
company’s short-term roadmap, applies to
multiple scenarios. For example, when a
fund needs to invest or divest funds without
altering the relative allocation of each asset
within the vehicle, a separate order must be
created for each instrument. Alternatively, a
fund may employ a strategy dictating a
certain ideal level of exposure per currency
or per exchange. Inevitably, funds drift from
those targets, and rebalancing can help
generate orders that continually bring the
fund back in line with its objectives.
Allocation engine: The allocation engine
allows trading through a single order and a
single exchange account, even if the result

of the trade is intended to be distributed to
different funds, portfolios, strategies or other
business units. The allocation engine
transparently handles all aspects of the
distribution of the outcome of a trade into
corresponding business units, allowing the
trader to focus on achieving the best
execution for the order. The allocation
engine covers a wide range of use cases,
including:
● Static order allocation, which enables
the allocation logic of an order to be
deﬁned on a per-share, percentage, or
per-NAV basis.
● Dynamic position-based allocation,
which allocates trades in line with
rules applied to whole portfolios and
business units.
● Ensuring a fair price distribution
across business units.

Compliance and Reporting
Compliance Engine: The compliance engine
is based on Tora’s proprietary technology,
which offers extremely low latency and
extensive functionality, as well as a robust
framework
that
allows
Caspian
to
implement new limits and compliance rules
quickly and efﬁciently. The compliance
engine
provides
multiple
levels
of
functionality to address user deﬁned limits
and rules covering both pre-trade and
post-trade workﬂows.
● Pre-trade limits, which include simple
limits as well as more complex
portfolio or trading parameters such as
exposure limits. These limits can delay
order execution until compliance
checks are complete. They can be
triggered at various stages of a trade,
including
staging,
sending,
or
amending an order. There are three
12

levels to the limits: warning limits,
which can be overridden by the user;
approval limits, which require a
supervisor to approve the order before
it can be sent to market; and absolute
limits, which cannot be overridden.
● Post-trade compliance includes alerts,
monitoring, and reporting. Alerts and
reports can be delivered to users via
email or other mechanisms, either on a
schedule or as they occur.
Reporting Engine: From day one, Caspian
will feature robust reporting capabilities,
consisting of simple “ﬂat ﬁle” reports such
as trade ﬁles, snapshot reports, position
data, audit reports, and compliance reports.
These options offer ﬂexibility in preparing
graphical reports and other external-facing
materials.
As part of our roadmap, we are also working
on a solution that incorporates Tora’s
proprietary reporting engine to allow users
to design report templates including graphs,
editable tables, and ﬁltering. Users can then
schedule and receive graphical reports
directly in PDF, in Excel format, or in
Powerpoint.

which users can use as a “one-stop shop.”
This includes execution data, instrument
information and instrument prices (both
real-time and mark-to-market), margin and
account information, and volumes and
liquidity information.
Online Dashboards: Once Caspian integrates
the Tora Reporting engine, it will be able to
harness
a
number
of
associated
dashboarding functionalities. In particular, it
will enable customizable web dashboards,
enabling users to:
● View web-based visualizations on an
ad-hoc basis, including exposure
breakdown graphs, margin reports, and
order ﬁll status.
● Amend visualization in real time by
adding formula columns to tables or
changing chart types.
● Save their amended visualizations as
both a new report that can be
scheduled and sent as a ﬁle, and as a
new dashboard that can be viewed
online.

Importation of Data: Caspian’s various
modules import the data provided by each
exchange via its protocols and APIs,
focusing the information into a single portal

13

Technical Summary

Architecture
Caspian is a cloud-based platform, with
distributed
services built around a
microservice architecture, and functionality
accessible via thin UIs and APIs. This
creates signiﬁcant ﬂexibility, allowing the
platform to accommodate solutions ranging
from private clouds hosted in a client’s
traditional datacenter to environments
supporting large numbers of clients hosted
on cloud computing platforms provided by
established players in the space.

Each aspect of the system is managed by a
distinct
service
with
a
dedicated
communication channel, its own API, and a
built-in protocol for subscribing to its data.
On the back end, the services are either
conﬁgured to run in dedicated processes, or
several (usually related) services can be
bound together to run into a single process.
The services can offer data through both a
request/reply and a publish/subscribe
mechanism.

14

The backend services are linked by a high
speed,
certiﬁed
message
delivery
technology. This offers a range of
advantages:
● Decoupling of services that do not
require mutual awareness of the
components that act as their clients.
● Plug-and-play architecture enabling
the addition of new components to
handle new services.
● Ability to set different communication
priorities for various services.
● Scalability:
the
plug-and-play
architecture makes it easy to add new
service instances capable of handling
greater loads or accommodating more
clients.
● A built-in mechanism that guarantees
no data is lost traveling between the
various components.
● High data throughput.

Performance
The system is designed to handle large
volumes of data while ensuring low latency
for messages on their way to and from the
exchanges. While Caspian was not initially
designed for high frequency trading, the
capacity and latency numbers it can achieve
nonetheless approximate the performance
such a client would need. Speciﬁcally,
Caspian is designed to handle up to 50,000
orders and 400,000 executions per day per
user, with a throughput of over 2,500 orders
per second.

Scalability
Caspian partitions data and communication
channels into distinct spaces for each client.
These silos can be further reﬁned into
narrower categories based on the needs of

each client, according to relevant criteria
(regions, types of products traded etc).
● Backend services are conﬁgured to
handle one or more such partitions,
aiming to keep the load of each
instance below a set threshold, with
setup closely monitored. If an upper
capacity
limit
is
reached,
re-partitioning
occurs
and
new
instances
are
automatically
or
manually launched (depending on
speciﬁc client needs) to cover the new
distribution.

Reliability
Reliability is a key strategic priority for the
Tora system upon which Caspian was built,
leading to 99.99% uptime in the past ten
years of operation.
This is achieved via a number of
complementary functions:
● Fault tolerance and high availability: all
critical Caspian services have built-in
redundancy and replication, ensuring a
resilient architecture with no single
point of failure. A standby instance is
always ready to seamlessly take over,
avoiding any disruption in the event of
a problem.
● Load balancing: the services are
exposed via a load balancer, which
runs a routing algorithm to redirect any
request to the least contended gateway
instance, which is most capable of
handling the request at the time it is
made.
● Business Continuity Plan/Disaster
Recovery
(BCP/DR):
for
the
low-probability but high-severity risk
of a major failure that could render the
primary site unreachable or unusable,
15

Caspian will offer a backup cloud. This
disaster recovery environment will
constantly be updated to mirror the
state of the active cloud, and will be
ready to take over if activated, avoiding
any disruption to end users.
● Tools and processes: no matter how
much effort is put into the proper
design, implementation, and quality
control, we acknowledge that there is
no perfect software and there is always
a chance something may go wrong. To
handle
such
unforeseen
issues,
Caspian has built-in “safety nets” and
control mechanisms. Various “health
check” jobs and sanity tasks are run
automatically on a regular basis.
Notiﬁcations are then sent to the
production support team, which will
preemptively take the necessary
corrective measures.

Security
Security is paramount. In order to ensure the
privacy and integrity of all data ﬂowing
through the Caspian ecosystem, the
following features are in place:
● Connectivity between the client
application and the cloud is created by
a private leased line or by encrypted
connections over the internet,
● The client app access can be limited to
only from a set of concrete whitelisted
IPs.
● Secure user sign-in is enforced through
“strong”
password
complexity
requirements
and
two-factor
authentication.
● Access to the back end is restricted to a
limited
number
of
authorized
administrative and support users.

● Integration with an isolated exchange
API “signing” service, which securely
stores the end user’s exchange API
keys and handles the message signing
without exposing the keys in the vault.
● Connections
to
exchanges
or
third-party
systems
are
always
encrypted when supported by the
exchange, regardless of whether the
messaging is handled via FIX, REST or
any other proprietary protocol.

Support
Any solution is only as strong as the support
around it. On this front, the digital asset
space has been historically weak. Caspian
will leverage the resources of Tora and
Kenetic to offer a professional, multilingual
product support team based on an initial
Service Level Agreement. All issues are
sorted according to their Service Impact
Level, with anything that affects trading
activity assigned the highest urgency. Tora
has an excellent track record working with
demanding clients in the traditional ﬁnance
world, resolving or providing workarounds
to critical issues within minutes in most
cases. Caspian’s support team is skilled and
experienced at using enterprise software to
provide a level of support unparalleled in the
digital asset space. Senior developers are
rotated among support teams so that both
level 1 and level 2 Support issues can be
handled intraday with no delays.

Ongoing
development
adaptability

and

An advantage and a challenge to the crypto
space is the rapid pace of change. Any
solution must be able to quickly adapt to
new tradable products, new exchanges, new
16

digital assets, and new technologies. In
many
cases,
this
requires
actual
development, making a skilled, ﬂexible, and
adaptable development team even more
critical. By leveraging Tora’s development
team of over 150 people, Caspian offers this
ﬂexibility. The team employs the Agile
methodology, with short, efﬁcient 2-week
development cycles (“sprints”), allowing
Caspian to swiftly and efﬁciently adapt to
any changes.

Audit
Having systems that are auditable is a must
for institutional clients. Every action in the
Caspian system is timestamped and
recorded, providing a detailed audit trail,
where any information like the time, the
user and the nature of the change can be
consulted at a later juncture, enabling the
clients to track any change back to its origin

while providing sufﬁcient information for
any regulatory audit.

Modularity
Integration

and

Third-Party

While the Caspian solution is designed to be
a one-stop, turn-key solution for the digital
asset space, any of its modules can easily be
connected or integrated with other
third-party systems and solutions, including
digital asset exchanges, risk management
systems,
and
proprietary
portfolio
management systems. Caspian plans to
offer a variety of such integrations, allowing
clients to choose the individual components
that are appropriate to their current
workﬂow and to have Caspian connect to
other systems as necessary.

17

Business Plan and Growth Strategy
Caspian is currently operational and
connected to over ten exchanges. We expect
to add up to forty exchanges to the
ecosystem by the end of Q3 2018.
We plan to grow the business and roll out
additional features and functionality over
the following 12 months, as outlined below:
● Partnerships with existing exchanges
to speed client acquisition and
facilitate introduction to high volume
traders.
● Customer outreach through service
providers such as fund administrators.
Caspian plans to connect with various
service providers that work with new
and
existing
asset
managers
evaluating the crypto space. We expect
these relationships to be a major
source of new clients looking for an
institutional-grade trading platform.
● Build on the existing relationships of
both Kenetic and Tora to identify and

●

●

●

●

●

reach out to traditional asset managers
looking to move into crypto asset
classes, as well as existing crypto
funds. Caspian is well placed to reach
these groups at an early stage and drive
their adoption of the platform.
Expansion into crypto communities,
including
organizing
trading
competitions, setting up bounty
programs and other community
programs.
Outreach
aimed
at
developer
communities, including organizing
hackathons.
Outreach to relevant industry bodies,
including
Financial
Information
eXchange (FIX) and the Alternative
Investment Management Association
(AIMA).
Promotion of Caspian through events,
trade
shows,
conferences
and
meet-ups.
Online marketing strategy focused on
institutional and experienced traders.

18

Provisional 12-Month Roadmap
The table below shows Caspian’s expected development roadmap for the next 12 months.
Initially, the team intends to focus on core functionality and exchange connectivity. Once
these milestones are achieved, emphasis will be placed on implementing more complex
functions and user interfaces. This roadmap is subject to change based on market
conditions, token-based governance, legal/regulatory considerations and customer feedback.
Q2 2018

●
●
●
●

20 Supported Exchanges
FIX API Access
Basic Algos
Basic SOR

Q3 2018

●
●
●

SOR enhancements
Algo enhancements
10-20 Additional exchanges

Q4 2018

●
●

●
●
●
●

Pre-trade exchange-based TCA
Limits:
○ identify overall market impact when
using SOR
○ work across exchanges
Latency: proximity to exchanges for al
Rebalancing
Graphical reporting and visualizations
REST API Access

●
●
●
●
●
●

xNew algos
Liquidity Risk
Value at Risk
Stress Testing
Sensitivity Shifts
Margin: API Access

Q1 2019

19

Token Ecosystem
Token
Model
Objectives

Overview

and

The Caspian token (CSP) is an ERC-20
compliant token to be issued on the
Ethereum blockchain. The CSP token model
has been designed to serve several principal
objectives. In the broadest sense, the goal is
to link Caspian’s best-in-class functionality
with a token that incentivizes platform use
and the development of unique third-party
tools and features. Speciﬁcally, the token is
intended to create a rich, participatory
ecosystem where platform users also
become community members with an active
interest
in
the
platform.
This
is
accomplished
by
giving
the
token
user-to-platform utility (discount and
governance) and user-to-user/developer
utility. Broadly speaking, the token is not
required to access the platform but can be
used to enhance one’s experience of it
through an intentional variety of means and
to get a variety of beneﬁts. The hope is that
users unfamiliar with token utility will be
incentivized to take steps toward using the
token in gradually more complex ways.
User-to-Platform Utility: The Commission
Discount
Programs
(guaranteed
and
dynamic)
and the Discount Payment
Function will provide fundamental value to
the token by allowing token holders to earn
and potentially combine different discounts
that can offset platform fees. . The
Governance Node framework will also
enable members of the token community to
contribute to platform direction.

User-to-User Utility: The CSP rewards
developers who offer their apps for free.
Caspian
will
incentivize
third-party
development on the platform though grants,
bounties, and a rewards engine. This will
allow the (vetted) emergence of new features
on the platform, complementing the base
features with a richer and more attractive
functionality.
Token provides utility but is not necessary:
The token is designed to enhance the user
experience and enrich the Caspian
community. It is not designed to be
necessary to enjoy the base feature set of the
platform. Even without the token, clients
can use all core features discussed in the
preceding sections. That said, using the CSP
token will open access to unique beneﬁts
that should be compelling to a wide range of
users, and the multiple sources of utility
allows different users to ﬁnd value in the
token in different ways.
Token “Staking”: Many of the beneﬁts for
token holders will involve sending tokens to
a staking contract. This is designed
primarily as a means of accounting for the
token balances of active users. Tokens sent
to the contract cannot be used for transfer or
trading. However, users will retain the
ability to withdraw tokens from the staking
smart contract at any time at their own
discretion. As used this section, the term
‘staking’ means sending tokens to the
staking contract, from which token balances
will be read. When a user stakes tokens in
20

the address, Caspian will track that user’s
total staking balance and the times at which
that balance has changed. It will use that to
ensure beneﬁts are appropriately calculated
as outlined below.
An individual staked token can only be
allocated to one of the beneﬁt mechanisms,
though a user can stake different tokens for
different
beneﬁts.
For
purposes
of
determining the Governance Council, all of a
user’s staked tokens are counted.

Commission Discount Function
The commission discount program has
three forms. The ﬁrst offers token stakers a
guaranteed discount that increases in a
predictable manner over time up to 25%, as
long as the tokens remain staked. The
second allows users paying in CSP tokens to
receive an additional discount of up to 25%
of their fees. .. The third is a potential
dynamic discount, with further details to be
published in due course..
In order to count towards a discount, tokens
must have been staked for one week,
counted as seven consecutive 24-hour
periods, as of the daily calculation hour.
Tokens begin to accrue beneﬁts beginning
on the eighth day after they have been
staked. If the eighth day falls midweek,
token holders will accrue a partial discount
for that week, with a full discount applied to
the following week, assuming the tokens
remain staked. For purposes of the
guaranteed
discount,
staked
tokens
designated towards the discounting beneﬁts
gain weight each week they are fully staked,
up to a maximum of 25 weeks. At that point,

staked tokens are considered to be at “full
weight”.
Guaranteed Discount
The
guaranteed
discount
function
establishes a mechanism where users can
access a set discount that increases over
time.
The discount accruing to tokens staked
towards this option increases at the rate of
one percentage point per week, up to a cap
of 25%. The value of tokens staked must be
greater than 1% of a client’s weekly average
of daily trade volumes in order to qualify.
The staking threshold is established each
week based on the previous week’s trading
and token price data. The user must
maintain an average balance above this
threshold in order to accrue another point of
discount.
Establishing a minimum staking threshold
based on a combination of an individual
client’s own notional trading volume and the
ﬁat equivalent value of the token represents
an effort to make the discount accessible to
a range of clients, from moderate users to
the most active. The system is also a ﬂexible
and responsive one, where clients will be
able to adjust their staked token amounts
relative to both their own activity on the
platform and ﬂuctuations in the token price.
To illustrate this, imagine a client with
average daily trading volume of US$1 million
throughout week 4 (assuming the client has
already fulﬁlled all staking requirements up
to week 4 and is currently at a 4% discount).
During week 4, the CSP average token price
was $0.50. For week 5 the same client would
need to maintain a staked token balance of
20,000 tokens--the ﬁat equivalent of $10,000
21

in tokens or $1,000,000 x 1% at $.5 per
token--in order to gain an additional
discount point towards the 25% ceiling
under the Guaranteed Discount program. If
the client did maintain an average token
balance of 20,000, the client would enjoy a
5% discount. Should week 5 close with the
client’s average staked token balance below
the necessary threshold (for example, in a
situation where the client’s trading volume
had increased during week 4, requiring an
increase in staked tokens for week 5) the
client would have a grace period of 72 hours
to remedy the deﬁciency in order to
continue to accumulate discount points
during the new week.
A client who fails to top up a deﬁcient
staking minimum beyond the 72 hour grace
period suffers no penalty and simply does
not accrue an additional discount point for
the new week. During a second week of
unremedied deﬁciency, the client’s discount
is diminished by 1% relative to the prior
week. In effect, the hypothetical client
reverts to their week 3 discount level. A
client that does not address a deﬁcient token
staking balance after the second week will
see their staking discount reset to the initial
1% discount.
Caspian reserves the right to modify the
staking threshold or temporarily suspend
staking
minimums
in
extreme
circumstances, including in response to
sudden market drops that raise effective
token staking thresholds.
Discount Payment Function
Caspian will offer to users who pay fees in
CSP a maximum 25% discount that stacks
with other discounts.

A user who stakes tokens as part of the
guaranteed discount and pays fees in CSP
would receive a maximum 50% discount
platform fees.
Dynamic Discount
Caspian intends to develop a dynamic
discount program that has the potential to
offer a greater discount to those staking
tokens. Further details will be released in
due course.

User to User Utility Accelerating
Third-Party Development
The CSP token will play a critical role in
incentivizing third-party development and
integration on top of the Caspian platform.
Possibilities include advanced charting
libraries, user interface modiﬁcations,
external trading signal feeds, or stress tests
for trading strategies.
Third-party developers will have two
options when offering an application or
service on the platform:
● Selling usage of the app or service: In
order to use an app or service, users
pay
a
developer-determined
subscription fee. Caspian will retain a
portion of this subscription fee as
platform host. In order to offer an app
for sale, developers must stake* tokens
as a deterrent against offering poor
apps or service.
*This staking mechanism may be a
different mechanism to the other staking
described in this paper. Further details
will be published in due course.
● Offering the app to token stakers:
Instead of offering apps in exchange
for subscription fees, developers can
make them accessible to users who
22

stake tokens to use them. Developers
who offer their apps in this way specify
the monthly staking requirement and
become
eligible
for
tokens.
Applications offered in this way are
called ‘free apps’ because users aren’t
required to pay--only to stake tokens.
Examples include third-party charting
or fundamental analysis services with
an access fee set at 10 staked tokens
per month per user, or whatever
amount
the
developer
deems
appropriate.
‘Free Apps’ to Token Stakers
In order to view the ‘free apps,’ users must
stake at least one CSP. Beyond that, each
app’s token ‘staking price’ indicates its
precise staking requirement. Users can only
access as many ‘free apps’ as their total
staking balance will support. If a user has
ten total staked CSPs for purposes of
applications, s/he can only activate a
number of apps whose cumulative staking
price is ten tokens. This is designed to
discourage bloatware while still supporting
open application development: users aren’t
spending tokens, but are rather determining
where to allocate scarce resources. This
should prevent the adoption of frivolous
apps designed to be downloaded by many
users. Tokens staked for app access are not
eligible for a guaranteed or dynamic
discount. This is a variation on the
“freemium” model.
Ecosystem Development Incentives
From time to time, Caspian will consider
providing rewards to application developers
offering their apps to Caspian platform
users. These rewards are based on a variety
of factors at Caspian’s discretion, but are
premised on an app being provided for free

or in return for a number of tokens speciﬁed
by the developer to be staked. Of course,
application developers always remain free to
decide the fee or staking amount (if any) to
access their app.
Whilst ultimately at an application
developer’s discretion, staking can provide a
way for developers to test features and
gauge interest, recognizing that a user is
more likely to stake a token to use an app,
since that token will eventually be returned,
than to pay for it. Instead of spending a
valuable asset, they are simply setting it
aside while they use the app and providing
‘payment’ in the form of an opportunity cost.
The purpose of Caspian’s discretionary
rewards approach is to incentivize
developers to consider allowing users to test
their apps for free (or on a staked basis),
rather than immediately requiring a fee from
users. This can help users access innovative
apps and test their quality, before deciding
whether to pay for them (if and when they
are offered on a paid basis).
This is a key element of Caspian’s vision to
build a true community of quality platform
members, users, and developers. Further
details will be released in due course.
Additional Development Bounties
Caspian’s CSP token will play several
additional roles in supporting third-party
development:
● Development Bounties: A rewards
mechanism
slowly
releases
Caspian-held tokens into bounty pools
to incentivize developers to build out
key infrastructure, integration, and
plug-ins. Distribution is determined by
23

Caspian in collaboration with the
Governance Nodes. Caspian may
choose to fund speciﬁc development
integrations by establishing bounties
for developers to target speciﬁc tools or
functionalities.
● Community Bounties: Users will have
the opportunity to vote for new features
or apps they would like the see on the
platform.
Bounties for winning
features or plug-ins maybe awardable.
Ultimately, the nature of the app-platform
will depend heavily on Caspian’s user base,
and Caspian will be informed by its
community council of top token stakers to
help decide where to prioritize its resources.
Caspian will allow users to vote on new
features that have bounties attached. These
are expected to spur development, with
Caspian reserving the right to unilaterally
establish bounties for use at the Company’s
discretion.

Governance Nodes
Caspian will implement a governance
function that enables key members of the
community to provide input on overall
platform development.

This governing group functions as a council
with which Caspian can regularly consult,
particularly as it relates to Caspian’s
evolution into a platform for third-party
development. The group will help deﬁne the
bounty pools and participate in the
allocation of development grants.
In exchange for their input, Governance
Nodes receive an additional 5% discount on
trading fees above that offered as a result of
token staking.
Governance Nodes guide a minimum of 25%
of Caspian’s development resources for
integration of new exchanges and new
tokens, as well as the addition of new
base-level features to be developed by the
Caspian team. Each quarter, Caspian will
consult with its current Governance Nodes
to set priorities for the quarter. This
ultimately will include milestones and
development targets, which Caspian will
communicate to these Nodes.
Caspian has the right to transfer governance
activities on platform and potentially onto a
blockchain.

The top 15 token stakers globally will serve
as Governance Nodes and help guide the
development of the platform. Tokens must
have been staked for at least six weeks to be
eligible for entry into this group.
Membership is determined quarterly. Token
stakers can choose to opt out of governance
and transfer their status to the next staker.

24

Contact Caspian
To request further information, please use the following outreach channel:
Email: info@caspian.tech
Caspian, Ltd.
Registered Ofﬁce, Intertrust Corporate Services (Cayman) Limited, 190 Elgin Avenue,
George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-9005, Cayman Islands

25

