CENNZnet Whitepaper

A world
corporated

1

Contents
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ....................................................................................................3
Purpose Meets Opportunity ....................................................................................................7
Mission Impossible for Traditional Start-ups ............................................................................8
Barriers to Mainstream Adoption of Blockchain ..................................................................... 10
The Solution: A New Start-up Life Cycle ................................................................................. 11
How the CENNZnet Platform works ....................................................................................... 12
A Proven Business Model ...................................................................................................... 14
App Boosting ......................................................................................................................... 16
The Centrality Platform Modules ........................................................................................... 17
The Economic Model ............................................................................................................. 21
CENNZnet Tokens .................................................................................................................. 23
Centrality Platform Pte. Limited............................................................................................. 36
Conclusion............................................................................................................................. 37
Centrality Team ..................................................................................................................... 38
The Tech Team ...................................................................................................................... 40
Sources ................................................................................................................................. 41

2

Important Information
General
This White Paper provides a general technical overview of the proposed smart contract-based token generating
event described in the CENNZ Tokens section of this White Paper (the "TGE") and, more generally, the Centrality
Platform. This White Paper is for information purposes only.
None of Centrality Platform Pte. Limited, Centrality Investments Limited, any of their associated entities, nor any
of their employees, agents or assigns (together, the "Centrality Entities", each a "Centrality Entity") make any
warranty or representation (to the extent permitted by law) as to the utility or value of CENNZ tokens (described
in the CENNZ Tokens section of this White Paper) or the operation of the Centrality Platform.

Not a regulated offer of financial products
This White Paper, and the information contained in it and any information accompanying it, are not, and are
under no circumstances to be construed as, an offer of financial products to any person who requires disclosure
under Part 3 of the Financial Markets Conduct Act 2013 (the "FMC Act"). This White Paper is not a product
disclosure statement under the FMC Act and does not contain all the information that a product disclosure
statement is required to contain under New Zealand law. Neither this White Paper, nor any other document,
have been registered, filed with or reviewed or approved by any New Zealand regulatory authority or under or in
accordance with the FMC Act.
The CENNZ tokens referred to in this White Paper are not being issued with a view to being offered for sale in
New Zealand to any person who requires disclosure under Part 3 of the FMC Act. Any offer or sale of any CENNZ
token described in this White Paper and the information contained in or accompanying this White Paper in New
Zealand will be made only in accordance with the FMC Act to a person who:
(a) is an investment business as specified in clause 37 of Schedule 1 of the FMC Act;
(b) meets the investment activity criteria specified in clause 38 of Schedule 1 of the FMC Act;
(c) is large as defined in clause 39 of Schedule 1 of the FMC Act;
(d) is a government agency as defined in clause 40 of Schedule 1 of the FMC Act; or
(e) is an eligible investor as defined in clause 41 of Schedule 1 of the FMC Act, provided that an eligible
investor certificate has been provided in compliance with clause 41 of Schedule 1 of the FMC Act.

In addition, this White Paper, and the information contained in it and any information accompanying it, are not,
and are under no circumstances to be construed as an offer to sell or issue, or a solicitation of an offer to
purchase or subscribe for, all or any of the following financial products or instruments:

3

•

"securities" as defined under Sections 2(1) and/or 239(1) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289
of Singapore (the "SFA");

•

"futures contract" as defined under paragraph (b) of the definition of "futures contract" under Section
2(1) of the SFA;

•

contracts or arrangements for the purposes of "leveraged foreign exchange trading" as defined under
the Section 2(1) of the SFA;

•

"commodity contract" as defined under Section 2 of the Commodity Trading Act (Chapter 48A of
Singapore) (the "CTA");

•

contracts for the purchase or sale of any "commodity" (as defined under Section 2 of the CTA) by way of
"spot commodity trading" (as defined under Section 2 of the CTA),

(collectively, the "Singapore Regulated Products").

Not a retail securities offer
Without limiting the generality of the preceding paragraph, this White Paper (including the information
contained in it and any information accompanying it) is not, and is under no circumstances to be construed as an
offer to sell or issue, or a solicitation of an offer to purchase or subscribe for, any securities to any retail investor
in any jurisdiction.

Wholesale investor warranties and selling restrictions
Any person who applies to buy CENNZ tokens in the TGE irrevocably and unconditionally represents and agrees
(among other matters that are set out in the subscription agreement) that:
(a) the person is not a citizen or a resident of the United States of America or of the People’s Republic of
China, nor a citizen or a resident of any country or jurisdiction in which the sale, purchase, disposal,
acquisition, holding and/or trading of tokens issued pursuant to a TGE is not permitted by law, nor is the
person located in a geographic area that is subject to the laws of any such country;
(b) the person is not a citizen or a resident of, or is physically located in, the Republic of Singapore;
(c) if the person is in New Zealand, the person meets at least one of the criteria set out in paragraphs (a) to
(e) above;
(d) if the person is not in New Zealand, the person is a “wholesale investor” (or the equivalent term) for the
purposes of the securities laws in all applicable jurisdictions;
(e) the person is not purchasing the CENNZ tokens as agent or otherwise for or on behalf of any other
person or entity; and
(f) the person has not:
(i)

offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, directly or indirectly, any CENNZ token prior to
4

the date on which Centrality Platform Pte. Limited, which will sell and issue the CENNZ
tokens, notifies purchasers that the Centrality Platform has been released which will not
occur until at least 3 months after the end of the TGE (the "Release Date"); and
(ii)

distributed and will not distribute, directly or indirectly prior to the Release Date, the White
Paper, Centrality Platform Pte. Limited’s constitution, or any other offering materials or
advertisements in relation to the TGE or the CENNZ tokens,

other than to persons who meet all of the criteria set out in paragraphs (a) to (d) above, and where
doing so will not result in (i) the sale of the CENNZ tokens in the TGE being, or being viewed as, a
regulated offer of financial products or securities in any country or jurisdiction, (ii) any contravention by
any Centrality Entity or any other persons of the FMC Act, the SFA, the Financial Advisers Act (Chapter
110 of Singapore), the CTA or any other applicable laws or regulations in any country or jurisdiction or
(iii)

the seller and issuer of the CENNZ tokens, Centrality Platform Pte. Limited, or other Centrality
Entities, or any of their respective directors and officers, incurring any liability in any country or
jurisdiction.

Anti-money laundering procedures
Any person who applies to purchase CENNZ tokens in the TGE will be subject to strict anti-money laundering and
countering the financing of terrorism checks. These are detailed in the subscription agreement.

Limited role of Centrality Investments Limited
Centrality Investments Limited is acting solely as an arms’ length third party organizer of the TGE and not in the
capacity as the financial adviser or fiduciary of any person with regard to the sale of CENNZ tokens.

No guarantee
Neither Centrality Investments Limited nor any other person guarantees the performance of the Centrality
Platform, the obligations of Centrality Platform Pte. Limited, nor the functionality of the CENNZ tokens.

No other material authorised
Save for persons who are expressly authorised by Centrality Platform Pte. Limited in writing, no person is
authorised to give any information or to make any representation relating to the CENNZ tokens outside of this
White Paper and the subscription agreement.

5

No offer or contract
This White Paper is not an offer or invitation to any person to purchase or otherwise deal in any CENNZ tokens. It
does not create a contract between the Centrality Platform Pte. Limited and/or Centrality Investments Limited
with any person.

No recommendation or financial advice
This White Paper has been prepared solely for general information purposes and not as specific advice to any
particular prospective purchaser of CENNZ tokens. It is not an express or implied recommendation to any person
to purchase CENNZ tokens.
In addition, any information or documentation (including this White Paper and the subscription agreement)
provided to you by Centrality Platform Pte. Limited and/or Centrality Investments Limited (or any of their
affiliates), or anyone acting on their behalf, does not purport to be, and shall not in any way be construed as
constituting, the provision of any advice or recommendation relating to any Singapore Regulated Product nor
constitute any financial, business, accounting, legal or tax advice or recommendation.

Limitation of liability
Centrality Platform Pte. Limited had no involvement with the ‘Early Contribution Round’ for CENNZ Round A
tokens arranged by Centrality Investments Limited. Centrality Platform Pte. Limited and its directors will bear no
responsibility or liability whatsoever for any loss or liability incurred by any person relating to the CENNZ Round A
tokens. Centrality Platform Pte. Limited shall not have any liability in respect of any claim by any person (whether
under law or otherwise) for any loss of business or profits, or in connection with any indirect or consequential
loss or any punitive or aggravated damages, arising out of any matter or circumstances giving rise to a claim
(whether under law or otherwise).

Risk summary
The purchase of CENNZ Tokens involves considerable risk. These risks are described in the ‘Risks Summary’, set
out in the CENNZ Tokens section of this White Paper.

Tax
Holders that acquire CENNZ tokens are wholly responsible for understanding and meeting all their tax obligations
whether of Singapore or elsewhere in relation to their acquisition, holding or disposal of CENNZ tokens.
Any payments (whether in Scene Tokens (as defined in the CENNZ Tokens section of this White Paper below) or
otherwise) that are made by Centrality Platform Pte. Limited to any holder of CENNZ tokens will be made after
the deduction of any withholding taxes, if so applicable, whether of Singapore or elsewhere. If any Singapore
goods and services tax at the rate of 7% is chargeable on the issuance of any CENNZ tokens by Centrality Platform
Pte. Limited, holders that acquire such CENNZ tokens shall bear such Singapore goods and services tax.
6

Reliance
No person is entitled to rely on the contents of this White Paper or any inferences drawn from it. This White
Paper is not intended to substitute or replace the due diligence that a purchaser should undertake before
deciding whether or not to buy CENNZ tokens. The information in this White Paper is not intended to be relied
upon in relation to, and must not be taken as basis for, any decision to subscribe for CENNZ tokens. Each
recipient of this White Paper is to rely solely on their own knowledge, investigation judgment and assessment of
the matters which are the subject of this White Paper and any information made available in connection with
further enquiries. A person must satisfy itself as to the accuracy and completeness of the information contained
within this White Paper before entering into a subscription agreement for the subscription of CENNZ tokens.

While the Centrality Entities have acted in good faith and have made every effort to ensure that the statements
made in this White Paper are reliable and accurate, and that all estimates, forecasts, expressions of opinion and
other subjective judgments contained in this White Paper are based on assumptions considered to be reasonable
as of the date of this White Paper, no warranty or guarantee, or representation (whether written, oral or
otherwise) is made by the Centrality Entities with regard to the accuracy, completeness or suitability of the
information presented in this White Paper (to the extent permitted by law). This White Paper should not be
relied upon, and shall not confer rights or remedies upon you or any other person. To the maximum extent
permitted by law, the Centrality Entities have no obligation to amend, modify or update this White Paper should
any of the information presented herein change or subsequently become inaccurate, incomplete or unsuitable.

White paper may be updated from time to time
This version of the white paper may be updated from time to time. You should ensure you read the current
version available here

By accessing this white paper, you irrevocably and unconditionally agree to be bound by all of the above terms.

Purpose Meets Opportunity
7

Despite market growth and increased prosperity, the vast majority of traditional tech startups fail, even if they
2
are well executed. Adam Smith’s invisible hand is powerless against the tech giants. Their significant head-start
on data gives an application of artificial intelligence (AI) the potential to increase the scale of inequality and
reduce basic human rights to a free and democratic society.
The PC internet has consumed consumers and businesses for years. As we try to escape the gravitational pull of
its data-mining-for-advertising model, there is a glimpse of the revolution with a new kind of technology on the
horizon. Distributed networks on blockchain have the ability to transform the world of traditional apps,
technology models, business models, and economic models across the globe.
While there is great promise, there is also a universal challenge with blockchain that is not commonly
acknowledged; there are hurdles that make the technology elusive for early stage companies and hard to adopt
for regular users. Most blockchain use cases are still in development and unproven. Furthermore, many of these
use cases are in areas an average user would be hard pressed to engage with.

Mission Impossible for Traditional Start-ups
Despite the challenges, the number of new online startups continues to grow, and the low barrier-to-entry
creates a huge fragmentation of effort. Consequently, very few start-ups achieve scale. In addition, today’s users
are interacting with fewer applications and their expectations are high. It is almost impossible for a new start-up
to achieve the capability required to meet these expectations.
Compared to incumbents, digital business models are often highly reliant on data mining for advertising, so
newcomers are starting from a disadvantaged position. Ubiquitous platforms are rapidly consuming new niches
with their bigger, multi-disciplined, agile teams and access to data so that they can anticipate market
movements.

The average app loses 77% of its daily active users within the first 3 days
of the install. Within 30 days, it’s lost 90% of DAUs. Within 90 days, it’s over 95%
Quettra Mobil e intelligenc e repor t 201 6

8

Blockchain applications fair even worse. To date, billions of dollars have been invested and yet major market cap
networks still cannot break past 5 figures for daily active users.

Two key factors are working against market entrants achieving scale. Firstly, the number of digital start-ups out
there is rapidly expanding, fragmenting user attention, capital and technical resources. Secondly, bigger platforms
have a huge lead in user data, attention, capital and resource, which enables them to either predict what’s coming,
or copy very fast.
On average, good plans, people, and businesses succeed only 1 in 10 times. This is due to the volume of components
that are critical for success. The best companies might have an 80% probability of succeeding at each of them. Even
with these odds, the probability of eventual success will be less than 20%, because failing to execute on any one
component can torpedo the entire company.3

Individual Event

Company has sufficient capital

Management is capable and focused
Production development goes as planned
Production and component sourcing goes
as planned
Competitors behave as expected
Customers want product
Pricing is forecasted correctly
Patents are issued and enforceable
Combine probability of success

Probability

80%
80%
80%
80%
80%
80%
80%
80%
80%

If just one of the variables drops to a 50% probability, the combined chance of success falls to 10.5%.

9

Based on this model, a very small percentage of corporations own and/or control all the assets and the system, in
which the other 99% are effectively chained to these corporations. Therefore, guiding purpose for Centrality
Investments Limited (Centrality or Centrality Investments) is to provide a platform that will create a decentralised
community of digital startups, who can become successful in a world where the odds are otherwise stacked
against them.
In graph theory and network analysis, indicators of Centrality identify the most important vertices within a
network of decentralised points. Applications include identifying the most influential person(s) in a social
network, key infrastructure nodes in the internet or urban networks 5.
The CENNZnet ecosystem described in this white paper allows developers and entrepreneurs to find and create
these connections between their applications and to create actions that join them together in new degrees of
closeness.
Centrality currently has 30+ ventures in its ecosystem, many are generating revenue and have a rapidly
increasing user base. CENNZnet has more than 10 times the monthly active DApp users of major networks like
Ethereum. The majority of these users are not simply trading tokens or gambling, they’re using real, everyday
DApps - like the confidential communications DApp from Sylo. Many of these ventures have partnerships with
listed companies and major corporations to help accelerate growth. The Centrality ecosystem is already proving
the benefits of sharing of data, users, merchants and insights to these ventures. This is creating lower acquisition
costs and faster scaling.

Barriers to Mainstream Adoption of Blockchain
Blockchain technology has the power to transform the way industries operate around the world. Many
blockchain companies are very technology-driven, or trading and fintech-centric. There is virtually no mainstream
consumer adoption, as the concepts are not familiar, and the user experience and interface are quite technical.
10

Even if a company decides to develop on the blockchain, the talent pool is limited and very few start-ups can
access the talent required to create robust solutions.
Many projects to-date have been very theoretical and overtly ambitious, with little real-world proof of their
value. The high failure rates are hardly a surprise and likely to continue considering the limited practical use cases
and user engagement strategies. This in itself represents a substantial risk to the ecosystem and consumer
adoption.
While they are often determined to change the system and create a more distributed and decentralised world,
blockchain companies typically follow the same economic model as their PC internet era start-up companies. For
example, they tend to:
1.

Reproduce the boiler plate for each application over and over

2.

Require the user to onboard over and over again

3.

Follow similar isolated value creation models and customer information silos as their incumbent
competitors

4.

Result in fragmented capital, human resources and user attention

The Solution: A New Start-up Life Cycle

CENNZnet is an ecosystem that supports each stage of the startup life cycle. It takes a human-centric approach
that allows users to interact with a range of different applications, 1 with very low friction. It allows developers to
create applications that leverage the combined scale of the ecosystem in order to beat the incumbent startup
hurdles that exist today.
The CENNZnet ecosystem was also designed with users at heart. It’s focused on mass consumer use cases and
increasing the general population’s access to the blockchain, beyond simple currency use cases, like Bitcoin.
Technology alone does not have the power to overcome the momentum that the incumbent technology
companies have, and with the advent of machine learning, these incumbent companies are extending their
advantage at exponential rates. The start-up landscape is unlikely to change without a radical shift in both the
economic model and execution of the idea.
CENNZnet developers are smart entrepreneurs who are trying to disrupt traditional value chains and concepts by
implementing blockchain technology.
The major advances in application development have been driven by platforms such as AWS and AZURE;
providing developers with tools, services, APIs and applications that enable them to focus on the
valuecreating parts of the technology stack and user experience.
11

However, this has further concentrated power to the platform owners. Imagine a world where the developers and
customers can harness the benefits from the services provided by a platform (like AWS) and the value the
applications create, instead of that benefit being concentrated in a single central entity.

The blockchain with users at its core
The CENNZnet blockchain is capable of linking applications together and providing a better user experience.
Rather than being on top of the network, this tech is built into the runtime of the network. This provides
developers with deeper APIs to create much better consumer experiences than traditional smart contract
networks. Our library of open source protocols that can be used as building blocks to create a decentralised
application (DApp) business. This component-based design gives startups flexibility over their product, while
ensuring a standardised look and feel across all DApps. It also provides users with a uniformed experience across
the ecosystem.
This component library allows start-ups to access all of the open source tools from the CENNZnet toolkit,
including single sign on, smart wallet, payments rails, data APIs, in-chain gas station, messaging protocol and
permissions protocol to name a few.
In addition to these tools, users can seamlessly move between applications without being subjected to traditional
approaches to customer application onboarding. This creates a network of interconnected DApps that users can
transition between in a human-centric way.
Being part of the CENNZnet ecosystem allows start-ups to create commercial connections using smart contracts
with other DApps who will help them grow. This avoids the cost and speed implications of traditional commercial
integrations and partnerships.

CENNZnet helps blockchain developers circumvent the start-up model by:
1.

Providing access to existing users so they can build their customer base faster.

2.

Providing the core components of any DApp inside the blockchain runtime to get their applications up
and running fast, with minimal effort.

3.

Providing an ecosystem for different applications to share in the user pool, the data pool, the merchant
pool, and the content pool across the platform to overcome traditional ‘chicken and egg’ scale issues.

How the CENNZnet Platform works

12

The CENNZnet blockchain is optimised for
great user experience on consumer DApps. It
has all of the core services a DApp would
need into the blockchain runtime, so they
can just focus on the value-added part.
CENNZnet has embedded its patented
‘Doughnut protocol’ into the chain, enabling
developers to create easy onboarding and
simple UX.

Various DApps plug into CENNZnet. They can
use the existing modules like messaging,
identity, exchange, inventory and payments.
CENNZnet even lets DApps pay for network
fees in their own tokens with our inchain
GAS station, so users can be onboarded
seamlessly.

DApps across different use cases work
together to acquire users, data, merchants
and content. The use of smart contracts
across CENNZnet ensures different
companies can trust each-other.

Each DApp is 100% focused on creating its
own businesses, partnering and on-boarding users, whilst CENNZnet
focuses on powering the core technology and design.
13

A Proven Business Model
CENNZnet has already proven the business model and technology. CENNZnet already has more than 30
applications in its portfolio; one of the applications, Sylo has onboarded more than 250,000 active users in its first
6 months, with more daily active users than all the top 10 Ethereum DApps combined. Centrality companies are
all generating real revenue and have partnered with fortune 500 and listed companies around the world to

implement their technology into their business.

*Partnerships as at August 2020

14

15

App Boosting

Different applications in the CENNZnet ecosystem can help each other grow by connecting users to relevant
services across the ecosystem. Applications can lower their costs of scaling by sharing from the marketplace of
services, merchants, content and user.

We have created a network optimised for user experience. Instead of common services (like identity) being built
as an application on top of the chain like in Ethereum, we’ve built core modules into our blockchain runtime. This
provides a much better developer and user experience. CENNZnet has been built using the PLUG framework and
has adopted many of the PLUG blockchain modules.
PLUG is a fork of Substrate. The Plug team have made several key modifications, which enhance the usability of the
chain for developers and application users, while still maintaining the great Substrate features, such as reliable POS
based consensus safe programming language (RUST) and Web Assembly support.

16

The Centrality Platform Modules
CENNZnet - public chain
CENNZnet is a public blockchain based on the PLUG framework.

Doughnut – decentralised cookies
Doughnut is the secret sauce of the CENNZnet blockchain. They are Proofs of Delegation between two or more
cryptographic keypairs. Doughnuts let us prove that one address delegates something to another address.
17

For example, if Alice wants to let Bob use her account, but only to send tokens to Charlie. This could be achieved
using a doughnut by doing the following:

•

Alice writes a "Pact" which permissions Charlie as the recipient of tokens.

•

Alice creates a "CENNZnut" which sets:
o
"generic-asset" as a permissioned module o
as a permissioned method for "generic-asset" o

"transfer"
the "Pact" for

Charlie as the constraints for "transfer"
•

Alice creates a doughnut which sets:
o

Alice as the issuer o Bob as the holder o A "cennznet"

permission domain with the "CENNZnut" as the payload of that domain
•

Alice signs the doughnut and gives it to Bob

•

When Bob wants to send funds to Charlie with Alice's account, Bob should attach the doughnut when
signing and sending an extrinsic.

In CENNZnet the Doughnut protocol requires a ‘cennznet’ permission domain with a ‘CENNZnut’ embedded. We
optionally embed ‘Pact’ constraints within the ‘CENNZnut’ to further limit the actions which can be taken with
delegated permissions.
Details of the Doughnut and CENNZnut are captured in the Doughnut Paper.
Details of Pact is available in the Pact Documentation

An example of how to send a Doughnut to CENNZnet using the API
1. Create a signed and encoded Doughnut
2. Add the encoded Doughnut to an extrinsic
We will do a genericAsset.transfer and add the encoded doughnut in the option parameter.

// Create the API and wait until ready
const api = await Api.create({ provider: "ws://localhost:9944" });

// Send transfer extrinsic with doughnut const
options = { doughnut: doughnut.encode() };
const txHash = await api.tx.genericAsset
.transfer(assetId, keyring.charlie.address, 1500000000)
.signAndSend(keyring.bob, options);

18

SingleSource - login with blockchain
A single user profile is required for users to move seamlessly between DApps in the ecosystem and to carry their
profile data to new interactions.
Users will always own their own personal information. When a user signs up, their profile will be created and
stored on the chain via a smart contract. This smart contract address will be given to the user. When a user wants
to access a new DApp they simply click the ‘onboard’ button and the platform will supply the profile address to
the new DApp.
DApps always have the latest user information. When a user updates their profile, they only need to update the
information inside the existing smart contract, rather than updating each app individually.
The SingleSource Extension is an on-device private key and account management. This is can easily be
incorporated to web applications or to sign transactions on CENNZnet.
The SingleSource API and SDK allow developers to perform eKYC and identity verification inside their
applications, using a unique privacy preserving stateless eKYC engine. This allows developers to create fintech
applications that can abide by international standards for compliance.

SYLO messaging protocol
The SYLO messaging protocol is an in-chain decentralised messaging protocol that enables developers to create
secure decentralised messaging applications or embed messaging in their DApp experience. The protocol allows
users to set up e2e messaging, group messaging and storage of content and contacts.

Centrapay
Centrapay is the portal between the decentralised world and traditional payment rails. Centrapay has developed
a smart wallet and APIs bridges both as a traditional fiat currency payment experiences and a cryptocurrency
wallet. This wallet can work inside a DApp or traditional platform application, enabling businesses to connect to
existing payments infrastructure such as point of sales systems, vending machines and EFTPOS terminals.
Centrapay has already onboarded 10’s of thousands of merchant acceptance points. Documentation

XPay
XPay is an on-chain integrated payments and inventory management module that allows developers to create
shopping and check out experiences and manage inventory on chain. Different DApps can share the same
shopping cart and payment rails.

19

CENNZX
The CENNZX Spot enables seamless fee payment experience on CENNZnet and makes token exchange instant and
easy. The CENNZX Spot eliminates rent extraction and centralised services, while prioritising decentralisation,
usability and security. Documentation

CENNZnet UI library
A UI component library which allows developers to rapidly develop familiar user experiences across their
different applications. Documentation

Sylo storage
Sylo has created modules to allow the creation, management and storage of content in decentralised content
networks. Documentation

Uncover
The UNcover explorer allows developers and users to access the data on chain to imbed in their applications.

Sylo mini DApp - application marketplace
Applications in the CENNZnet ecosystem will be more successful when they work together. Sylo has created Sylo
Experiences for developers who want to leverage their established DApp and users as a launchpad - enabling
developers to access existing users easily, just like you would in mainstream super apps, like WeChat. A user can
transition between, and transact with, different applications or services seamlessly without needing to download
or install another application from the app store, sign-in, or create a profile.
It will also allow the creators of different applications to create connections between each other where there is
mutual benefit. For example, a ride hail application may work with a food ordering application to reach more
customers or reduce the cost of delivery. Documentation

Sylo experience case study – Centrality swag app
Centrality needed an app for token holders to be able to spend their new CPAY reward tokens on Centrality
merchandise.
Centrality briefed the Sylo team to create an online store in the Sylo app. We also wanted to show integration
between CENNZnet and traditional applications, so Shopify was the selected to manage inventory, orders,
customers and products from the Shopify dashboard.
Using the Shopify Rest Admin API and the Sylo Experience SDK, they were able to create a Shopify-powered Sylo
Experience that accepts Bitcoins, Ethereum and any other ERC-20 tokens instead of fiat for merchandise.

20

The React Native developer assigned to the project could only use the docs provided and any problems or
questions would need to be communicated via Github. Centrality’s design team supplied the images and design
for the store (as a typical start-up would).

Release
The whole project took four weeks to complete — that’s including planning, design, implementation, testing, and
release. It then took only 10 minutes for the first order to be received.
You can check out the final result for yourself by scanning the QR below with your Sylo Smart Wallet.

The Economic Model

Centrality has partnered with a number of use cases that will prompt consumers and brands to transact with and
through CENNZnet.

21

CENNZnet turns the traditional funding method on its head. Traditionally, when somebody invests money into a
business, that money is used to build technology from scratch. This often results in duplication of components
that already exist elsewhere, making it hard to scale efficiently without a huge investment.

DApps will have access to CENNZnet and its open source library of tools and services: messaging via Sylo, single
sign on via SingleSource, smart wallet via Centrapay and spot exchange via CENNZX and our patent pending
permissions and delegations protocol, Doughnut. Developers will use these core services to build applications
with ease. The core services work differently to traditional on-chain DApps, because they will have access to
special permissions and APIs. This will make it easier to create exciting user experiences for those services that
are common to most applications.

The DApp ecosystem that builds on top of those four services and uses the network underneath. This structure is
unique to Centrality and it’s been purposely designed this way to make it easy for users to adopt. We think this
approach will catch on because it will ultimately make the user experience easier.

The CENNZnet token economy has been designed for both developers and users in mind. It will be cost-efficient
to run applications on CENNZnet and good applications will be incentivised to grow. Those who use the network
and help it grow will be rewarded. We’ve also aimed to reduce friction for onboarding for DApps and consumers.
The network will be governed by people who have a stake in CENNZnet and as we have more people using the
network, the higher the demand for CENNZ will be.

22

CENNZnet Tokens
CENNZnet operates on a dual-token economy. CENNZ for staking and governance, and CPAY for network
transactions and block rewards. Anyone with CENNZ can stake their tokens to earn block rewards.

CENNZ
CENNZ is a staking token; it can increase in value without impacting the cost of using the network. This is
important to ensure developers can predict the costs of running their application. In popular blockchain systems
today, the costs of development are variable and subject to external factors, which makes it hard to plan ahead.
For example, if the network gets congested for reasons outside the developer’s control, the cost of running my

23

app goes up. At the same time, it’s important to optimise usage of the network and prevent attacks. CENNZnet
has been designed to deliver predictable cost and optimal usage.

The demand for CENNZ will increase as more users join the CENNZnet network and generate more activity in the
form of transactions. CENNZ tokens will be required to join CENNZnet as a validator.
Staking your CENNZ enables you to participate in the network consensus by securing and governing the network.
It also provides you with block rewards in the form of our fee token, CPAY.

CPAY
CPAY works like gas in the network and will be used for transaction fees and block reward payments for stakers.
It’s designed to be algorithmically stable, so developers can easily predict the cost of their application, and
stakers can easily predict the value of their stake. CPAY will initially be tradable on the CENNZX exchange or can
be transferred directly between wallets.

The demand for CENNZ will be driven by DApps. Developers will have to buy CPAY off CENNZ holders and use
them in order to make their applications work. The more apps in the ecosystem, the more CPAY in circulation,
the better off CENNZ holders are.
Our token economy has been designed to encourage developers to buy CENNZ also. Developers will need CPAY
to use the network, but they’ll also be incentivised to buy CENNZ to participate in the network. CENNZ will be
required to perform a number of tasks, such as reserving a name space if developers want a domain inside of the
network. But generally, we want to maintain as low a cost as possible, to encourage as many applications to be
built.

24

Reserve tokens
Not every protocol or DApp requires a token to operate. In fact, many tokens produced to date have no genuine
utility. However, we believe some core functions in the platform do justify the need for a separate utility token.
These tokens often provide a discrete function, with its own economic needs separate to that of general-purpose
computing. Apps like Sylo and SingleSource have special permissions in our ecosystem and sit within the
blockchain runtime.
Reserve tokens have special access to the network and APIs to allow them to perform their special function in a
much more tightly coupled way. Anyone can propose a new reserve token function and economy and CENNZ
holders will be able to use their tokens to help in this curation process for applications.

Generic Assets
Transaction fees can be paid in any asset, provided there’s liquidity in the CENNZX in-chain GAS exchange.
CENNZX will then seamlessly convert the asset into CPAY for fees. This will streamline both onboarding and inapp

25

experience by eliminating the need for new users to learn about CENNZ or CPAY when they use their favorite
DApp.

Running a validator node
CENNZ demand will increase as the network activity and users increase. As a CENNZ holder, there’s every reason
to help secure the network and support the growth of the network in two ways: by running a validator node and
staking tokens.
Anyone with a PC, MacBook, Linux desktop, or their own server can join the CENNZnet network by running a
node. Unlike the Bitcoin network, which requires high spec computing power and energy consumption,
CENNZnet runs a Proof of Stake consensus that allows standard PCs to join the network, as long as they meet
certain availability requirement to ensure network efficiency.
The more nodes there are, the more secure and successful the network is.
CENNZ token holders can stake and run a validator node. Staking tokens enables CENNZ holders to actively
participate in CENNZnet and earning validation rewards. Users without CENNZ can also run a full node and have
access to APIs and data on incoming blocks and transactions, but they will not be able to stake.
Everyone who runs a validator node receives a reward in the form of our CPAY gas token, which can be used to
transact on CENNZnet. Validators benefit from access to the APIs blockchain data and support for new features in
CENNZnet. They can also stake or verify transactions in their wallet, without relying on another validator.

Native CENNZnet tokens
We have now launched our mainnet blockchain, so token holders will need to swap their ERC20 tokens onto
CENNZnet. CENNZnet is transitioning from the Ethereum blockchain to its own network, and its tokens are
transitioning from an ERC20 standard coin to brand new CENNZnet coins. The transition contract exists to allow
CENNZ and CPAY holders to swap their ERC20 tokens to receive official CENNZnet mainnet tokens and earn more
CPAY rewards before anyone else.

Please note:
(a) CENNZ token holders will have no legal or beneficial ownership of the intellectual property comprising the
Centrality Platform, nor in the shares or other assets of the Issuer. CENNZ tokens are not designed to be
securities and do not constitute, nor are they characterised as, any of the Singapore Regulated Products.
(b) For the avoidance of doubt, this White Paper, and the information contained in it and any information
accompanying it, are not, and are under no circumstances to be construed as an offer to sell or issue, or a
solicitation of an offer to purchase or subscribe for, any CENNZ tokens.
26

CENNZ Token Allocations in the 2018 TGE
In addition to the CENNZ tokens issued to wholesale purchasers, described in this section of this white paper, a
further approximately 240 million CENNZ will be issued to Centrality Investments as consideration for the
arrangement with Centrality Platform Pte. Limited in respect of the intellectual property comprised in the
Centrality Platform made on an arm’s length basis. Centrality Investments will not be able to sell or otherwise
deal with its CENNZ tokens until after the second anniversary date of the Release Date.

Token All
Centrality

Developers

Centrality Platform

20%

240,000,000

5%

60,000,000

5%

60,000,000

Total Tokens

1,200,000,000

An additional circa 60 million CENNZ has been allocated to developers to ensure that they have a personal
incentive to grow the platform moving forward.

The remaining circa 60 million CENNZ will be retained by the Issuer (Centrality Platform Pte. Limited) and
released slowly to fund growth of the Centrality ecosystem strategically by supporting the following four broad
purposes:
1.

Operational costs, infrastructure, developers

2.

Sourcing and funding revolutionary start-ups and participants that will enhance the Centrality Platform
and ecosystem for all participants. (Note that holders of CENNZ tokens will not have any ownership
stake in the businesses acquired.)

3.

Supporting and growing the blockchain and Centrality developer community

4.

Marketing and PR for the Centrality platform

27

Risks summary
The key risks summarised in this section are not intended to be an exhaustive list of the risks that may apply to
you as a purchaser or holder of CENNZ tokens. You should read these key risks and consider whether you are
willing to assume such risks before you agree to subscribe for CENNZ tokens.

No assurance of returns or benefits: There can be no assurance that CENNZ tokens holders will be able to
receive a return of their capital or any returns or benefits. Any purchase of CENNZ tokens should therefore only
be considered by persons who can afford a loss of their entire investment or holdings in the CENNZ tokens.

Market risk: The value of cryptocurrencies, can go down as well as up. The emergence of a new business model
can create opportunities for users and investors, but any young market carries significant risks for all of its
participants. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors may not recover
the full amount invested.

Regulatory risk: Regulation of digital tokens (including the CENNZ tokens) and token offerings such as this,
cryptocurrencies (including Ether), blockchain technologies, and cryptocurrency exchanges are relatively

28

undeveloped and likely to rapidly evolve and vary significantly among various jurisdictions and are subject to
significant uncertainty.

New or changing laws and regulations or interpretations of existing laws and regulations may adversely impact
the liquidity and market price of CENNZ tokens, your ability to access marketplaces on which to trade CENNZ
tokens, the Issuer’s or the Centrality Entities’ ability to operate as an ongoing concern and the structure, rights
and transferability of CENNZ tokens. The ability of a holder to access, use, transfer and exchange its (or his or
her) CENNZ tokens may be affected by changes to legislation, regulatory guidance or actions, and judicial
decisions in Singapore and in other countries. Therefore, there can be no assurance that any new or continuing
regulatory scrutiny or initiatives will not have an adverse impact on the value of CENNZ tokens and otherwise
impede the Issuer’s or the Centrality Entities’ activities.

No regulatory protection: The Issuer is not licensed or approved by the Monetary Authority of Singapore nor the
International Enterprise Singapore, and currently there is no intention for the Issuer to apply for any financial
services license or regulatory approval under the laws and regulations of Singapore. In addition, the CENNZ
tokens do not constitute, and are not characterised as, any of the Singapore Regulated Products. Therefore,
CENNZ tokens holders will not be able to invoke or avail themselves of any regulatory protection or remedies
applicable in respect of such Singapore Regulated Products under the laws and regulations of Singapore, in
relation to their purchase, holding or trading of CENNZ tokens.

Legal risk: There is little or no precedent on how existing law might treat the issue, fungibility, settlement finality,
transfer, collateralization, sequestration, loan, hypothecation, redemption or other disposition of CENNZ tokens.
There is also little or no precedent on how existing law might treat the rights and obligations between and
among the Issuer and the CENNZ token subscribers or holders. The occurrence of any related issue or dispute
could have a material adverse effect on the Centrality Platform, the Centrality Entities, the Issuer’s business
and/or the CENNZ tokens. New developments in the law and regulations may also adversely affect the legal or
regulatory treatment of the CENNZ tokens or the Centrality Platform and/or the Issuer’s or the Centrality Entities’
businesses.

Tax risk: The tax characterization of CENNZ tokens is uncertain and a subscriber should consult its own tax
advisor regarding the tax consequences of their acquisition, holding or disposal of CENNZ tokens. An investment
in CENNZ tokens may result in adverse tax consequences to subscribers. Each potential subscriber should consult
with and must rely upon the advice of its own tax advisor with respect to the tax consequences whether of
Singapore or elsewhere of an investment in CENNZ tokens.

29

Issuer risk: The Issuer was incorporated on 4 January 2018 and has not commenced operations. The Issuer is
subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business.

Lack of voting and liquidation rights: CENNZ tokens do not carry any voting, management or control rights or
other management or control rights in the Issuer. Accordingly, the shareholder of the Issuer will control decisions
of the Issuer, including any significant corporate transactions, or the election to liquidate or dissolve the Issuer. In
addition, upon a liquidation, bankruptcy or other dissolution of the Issuer, CENNZ token holders will highly likely
not be entitled to liquidation rights or other claims.

Key Person risk: Whilst Centrality Investments Limited and Centrality Platform Pte. Limited takes an active role to
managing key man risk through training, systemization, and succession planning there is still a risk that loss of a
key team member could cause delays to CENNZ platform development and thus having a detrimental effect on
price of CENNZ tokens.

Technology and Coding risk: Blockchain and smart contract technology is still in an early development stage and
its application of experimental nature which carries significant operational and technological risks. It is possible
that the TGE smart contract system or the early contribution smart contract system, or elements of the Centrality
Platform, could contain weaknesses, vulnerabilities or bugs which could cause, inter alia, the complete loss of the
holder’s utility and/or the value of the CENNZ tokens by impacting the operation and functionality of the
Centrality Platform. Outside actors may exploit such errors or vulnerabilities for personal gain or the Centrality
Platform may be affected in any event without such action.

Platform risk: While the Issuer and Centrality Investments are procuring the development of the Centrality
Platform, there is no assurance that the Centrality Platform will be designed or completed in the manner
described in this Whitepaper and if Centrality Platform is completed, there is no assurance as to the continued
operation and functioning of the Centrality Platform. The Platform is subject to change and no representation is
given that the any function or aspect of the Centrality Platform will continue to be provided or made available at
any time

Trading/Valuation risk: As a utility token, the inherent value of CENNZ tokens is derived from the successful
operation of the Centrality Platform. CENNZ tokens are not pegged to any fiat currency (legal tender backed by a
sovereign government) nor any cryptocurrency, and the exchange value from time-to-time given to CENNZ
tokens on third-party exchanges may not always reflect your intrinsic valuation of the CENNZ tokens. The risk of
loss when purchasing or disposing of CENNZ tokens could be substantial and losses may compound quickly
(including up to total loss). As a token built on top of the Ethereum network, the value of CENNZ tokens may be
affected by the valuation from time-to-time of Ether against fiat currencies and other cryptocurrencies.

30

Illiquidity risk: No CENNZ tokens will be issued after the TGE, although the reserves held by the Issuer and the
CENNZ tokens held by Centrality Investments will be released over time to the market. Should you wish to
temporarily, permanently or partially exit the Centrality Platform ecosystem, you may be unable to liquidate your
position by exchanging CENNZ tokens for fiat currency or cryptocurrency as there may not be a willing buyer for
your CENNZ tokens both in terms of price and volume. Holders have no right to redeem or sell their CENNZ
tokens. Although Centrality intend to list the CENNZ tokens on several cryptocurrency exchanges, there can be
no assurance that such exchanges will accept the listing of CENNZ tokens or maintain the listing if it is accepted.
There can be no assurance that a secondary market will develop or, if a secondary market does develop, that it
will provide the holders with liquidity of investment or that it will continue for the life of the CENNZ tokens.
There is also no guarantee from any central bank or centralized authority for CENNZ tokens that ensures you will
be able to redeem your CENNZ tokens for fiat currency or cryptocurrency. Furthermore, the digital token market
is a new and rapidly developing market which may be subject to substantial and unpredictable disruptions that
cause significant volatility in the prices of digital tokens. There is no assurance that the market, if any, for the
CENNZ tokens will be free from such disruptions or that any such disruptions may not adversely affect a CENNZ
tokenholder’s ability to sell its CENNZ tokens.

Network risk: CENNZ tokens are ERC20 compliant tokens built on top of the Ethereum network, a decentralized
network containing, among other things, both cryptocurrency and smart contract protocols. Neither Centrality
Investments, the Issuer nor any their associated entities have control over the Ethereum network, including
confirmations of transactions and execution of smart contracts on the network. Should the Ethereum network
experience temporary or permanent issues, including network slowdowns or transaction confirmation delays,
this is likely to affect the ability of CENNZ holders to freely use CENNZ tokens within the Centrality ecosystem and
could impair the usability of the Centrality Platform generally.

Cyber security risk: The nature of CENNZ tokens and the Ethereum network may lead to an increased risk of
fraud or cyber attack and may mean that technological difficulties experienced by the developers and users of
the Centrality Platform ecosystem could prevent access to or use of your CENNZ tokens. For example, it is
possible that an unauthorised third party could exploit a coding vulnerability in the Centrality Platform code and
damage, interrupt or otherwise attack it.

Private Key risk: Extreme caution must be taken whenever selecting, storing or transmitting private keys for
CENNZ tokens. You are responsible for the storage of your CENNZ tokens. If another person obtains access to
your private keys, they can steal your CENNZ tokens or other cryptocurrency you use to purchase CENNZ tokens.
Furthermore, if you lose access to your private keys, neither Centrality Investments, the Issuer, nor any other
entity, will be able to recover your lost CENNZ tokens or cryptocurrency. If you hold CENNZ tokens on a
cryptocurrency exchange, the private keys to those CENNZ tokens is held by that exchange. Should that exchange
31

be hacked or otherwise compromised, your CENNZ tokens may be stolen or otherwise become inaccessible. We
strongly recommend that you store your CENNZ tokens privately (and not via exchanges) and use cold storage
techniques to better secure your CENNZ tokens.

Wallet risk: In addition to the private key risk described above, you should store your CENNZ tokens in an ERC20
compliant hardware or software wallet. Should you attempt to send CENNZ tokens to a wallet type that does not
support CENNZ tokens, your CENNZ tokens may be lost forever.

Broker, dealer or exchange insolvency risk: There is risk that brokers, dealers, exchanges or wallets could
become insolvent or otherwise become insecure. There may be practical, or timing problems associated with
enforcing the rights to assets in the case of an insolvency or security disruption of any such party.

Financial risk: If the solvency of the Issuer and/or any of the Centrality Entities is impaired, the ongoing viability
of the Centrality Platform and the utility and value of the CENNZ tokens may be impaired.

General risks:
The growth of the blockchain industry in general, as well as the blockchain networks on which the Issuer rely, is
subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The performance of the Centrality Platform is subject to the following
uncertainties, among others:
(i)

worldwide growth in the adoption and use of BTC, ETH and other blockchain technologies;

(ii)

government and quasi-government regulation of BTC, ETH and other blockchain assets and their
use,
or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operation of blockchain networks or similar
systems;

(iii)

the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocol of the BTC or ETH
networks;

(iv)

changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences;

(v)

the availability and popularity of other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services,
or
trading assets including new means of using fiat currencies or existing networks;

(vi)

general economic conditions and the regulatory environment relating to cryptocurrencies and
digital
tokens;

32

(vii)

hacking and theft of cryptocurrencies and digital tokens; and

(viii)

popularity or acceptance of the BTC or ETH networks and the emergence of new cryptocurrencies,
digital tokens and blockchain networks.

The price of Bitcoin, Ether, digital tokens and other blockchain assets are subject to dramatic fluctuations. Several
factors may affect price, including, but not limited to:
(i)

global blockchain asset supply;

(ii)

global blockchain asset demand, which can be influenced by the growth of retail merchants’ and
commercial businesses’ acceptance of blockchain assets like cryptocurrencies as payment for goods
and services, the security of online blockchain asset exchanges and digital wallets that hold blockchain
assets, the perception that the use and holding of blockchain assets is safe and secure, and the
regulatory restrictions or prohibitions on their use;

(iii)

investors expectations with respect to the rate of inflation;

(iv)

changes in the software, software requirements or hardware requirements underlying a blockchain
network;

(v)

changes in the rights, obligations, incentives, or rewards for the various participants in a blockchain
network;

(vi)

currency exchange rates, including the rates at which Ether and Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies
or
digital tokens may be exchanged for fiat currencies;

(vii)

fiat currency withdrawal and deposit policies of blockchain asset exchanges and liquidity on such
exchanges;

(viii)

interruptions in service from or failures of major blockchain asset exchanges;

(ix)

investment and trading activities of large investors, including private and registered funds, that may
directly or indirectly invest in blockchain assets;

(x)

monetary policies of governments, trade restrictions, currency devaluations and revaluations;

(xi)

regulatory measures, if any, that affect the use of blockchain assets;

(xii)

the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocol of the Bitcoin or
Ethereum
networks;

(xiii)

global or regional political, economic or financial events and situations; and

(xiv)

expectations among blockchain participants that the value of blockchain assets will soon change.

33

Blockchain networks are based on software protocols that govern the peer-to-peer interactions between
computers connected to these networks. The suitability of the networks for the Issuer’s or other Centrality Entities’
business or the functionality of the CENNZ token depends upon a variety of factors, including:
(i)

the effectiveness of the informal groups of (often uncompensated) developers contributing to the
protocols that underlie the networks;

(ii)

effectiveness of the network validators and the network’s consensus mechanisms to effectively
secure the networks against confirmation of invalid transactions;

(iii)

disputes among the developers or validators of the networks;

(iv)

changes in the consensus or validation schemes that underlie the networks, including shifts
between
so-called “proof of work” and “proof of stake” schemes;

(v)

the failure of cyber security controls or security breaches of the networks whether on the Centrality
Platform or technological assets, or your / third party network or devices, and the associated risks of
legal action or actions of regulators relating to loss of data, damage to data / devices, threat or
compromise to privacy and data protection, and the occurrence of fraud or harm;

(vi)

the existence of other competing and operational versions of the networks, including without
limitation so-called “forked” networks;

(vii)

the existence of undiscovered technical flaws in the networks;

(viii)

the development of new or existing hardware or software tools or mechanisms that could
negatively
impact the functionality of the systems;

(ix)

the price of blockchain assets associated with the networks;

(x)

intellectual property rights-based or other claims against the networks’ participants and risks
associated with such legal claims (including but not limited to the risk that the operation of the
Centrality Platform is disrupted by such claims including claims for remedies such as injunctions);
and

(xi)

the maturity of the computer software programming languages used in connection with the
networks.

Unfavorable developments or characteristics of any of the above circumstances could adversely affect the Issuer’s
or other Centrality Entities’ business, the Centrality Platform or the proper functioning of the CENNZ tokens.

34

The foregoing risks do not purport to be a complete list and explanation of all the risks involved in acquiring a
CENNZ token. Potential subscribers are urged to consult their advisors before making a determination whether to
invest in CENNZ tokens.

35

Centrality Platform Pte. Limited

Overview
Centrality Platform Pte. Limited is a private limited company incorporated in Singapore on 4 January 2018. It is a
wholly owned subsidiary of Centrality Investments Limited. It will enter into an arrangement in respect of the
intellectual property comprising the Centrality Platform (copyright in the algorithms/software/protocols,
trademarks, and domain names) on arm’s length terms with Centrality Investments Limited, own the digital
wallet, which contains the sale proceeds of the TGE in Ether and the reserved CENNZ tokens, and procure
operational support services from Centrality Limited on arms’-length terms to support the Centrality ecosystem.
It is not anticipated that Centrality Platform Pte. Limited will have any employees nor own any other assets.
The directors of Centrality Platform Pte. Limited have a legal duty to administer the company strictly in
accordance with the terms of the company’s constitution (which can be accessed here), which sets out its
purpose and permitted activities.

Please note that CENNZ token holders will not have any right to receive or participate in any financial benefits or
other financial distributions. CENNZ tokens are not designed to be securities and do not constitute, nor are they
characterized as, any of the Singapore Regulated Products.

Centrality Platform Pte. Limited will dedicate resources to establish a fair and transparent governance model that
will take into account the multi-stakeholder voices and needs of all participants within the ecosystem. This open
governance model will oversee decisions related to the membership process, participation rules, legal matters,
and content and compliance guidelines.

Key Documents
In addition to Centrality Platform Pte. Limited constitution, there are a number of other key documents that
Centrality Platform Pte. Limited is party to in connection with the TGE, including:
IP Agreement – Under this agreement, Centrality Investments Limited will enter into an arrangement with
Centrality Platform Pte. Limited in respect of all relevant intellectual property in the Centrality Platform either by
way of a license or an outright transfer of such intellectual property to Centrality Platform Pte. Limited. In return
Centrality Investments will receive 20% of the issued CENNZ tokens upon the TGE.

Operational Services Agreement – Under this agreement, Centrality Limited will provide operational support to

36

Centrality Platform Pte. Limited to operate the Centrality Platform in exchange for payment in CENNZ tokens,
Ether, or fiat currency. Such operational support to Centrality Platform Pte. Limited includes the provision of
employees from Centrality Limited and through the use of Centrality Limited’s premises.

Centrality Platform Access Agreement – Under this template agreement, in consideration for receiving access to
the Centrality Platform and associated services, each Scene Company agrees to (a) pay a specified monthly
access fee of CENNZ tokens to Centrality Platform Pte. Limited and (b) to use all reasonable commercial
endeavours to have its own token-generating event and to allocate an agreed percentage of tokens issued to
Centrality Platform Pte. Limited.

Development goals
Our vision is to grow an open ecosystem of digital services where developers co-create products and services. We
support our developer ecosystem in reaching consumers that explore this exciting new economy. Together we
strengthen CENNZnet as a sustainable platform.

To kickstart this vision, CENNZnet will direct and fund the development of tools that give ecosystem partners the
ability to build, grow, and create value faster. CENNZnet’s codebase will be made fully open-sourced so
stakeholders can leverage it freely and empower communities by adding capabilities to existing technologies to
suit their needs. CENNZnet will be pro-actively engaging the developer community to continue improving the
technologies supporting the ecosystem.

We believe in the power and promise of a decentralisation as a continuous strategy with shared governance, the
potential DAO governance models have is to transition the world from a competitive model to a co-operative
one, where all participants benefit from their collective success. This is the world we want to live in.

Conclusion

The CENNZnet ecosystem is already a fully functional and integrated native DApp ecosystem supporting real
operating businesses. CENNZnet Platform will help repair the current startup economy and create a more equal
world for all participants.
37

CENNZnet has already achieved outstanding user adoption and boasts one of the biggest DApps in the blockchain
space globally.
With the CENNZnet Platform model, the blockchain development ecosystem can grow quickly to support
everyday use cases. Entrepreneurs can get to market quicker, with a higher chance of success. Applications can
work together to gain scale which will challenge incumbent platforms.
Users, investors and developers can all share in the value the ecosystem creates, defining a new kind of shared
value economy that can overcome the extreme centralisation happening in the broader technology ecosystem.

Centrality Team

Centrality has built a world class team of experienced business entrepreneurs, operations experts,
design specialists and a world class technology team to deliver the outcomes proposed in this White
Paper.

Centrality Executive Team
Roger Smith, Chairman
Shareholder and the key executive in driving the global growth of a unicorn
(Independent Liquor). Global M&A advisory board of Euronet
(NASDAQ:EEFT). Currently CEO of ePay NZ a billion-dollar payments
technology business. Roger is a successful active angel investor including

38

Society One, My HR, Cin7 and Fingermark. Roger has the domain expertise,

the business experience

and the track record to drive Centrality to become a
multi-billion-dollar company.

Aaron McDonald, Co-Founder and CEO
Aaron is a 20 year tech industry veteran
with experience leading teams across
all aspects of a technology company managing portfolios over $1b in value.
Aaron Founded Centrality a leading $100m global venture studio supports a
venture portfolio leveraging decentralised technology to create new market
innovation and customer experiences. Aaron is a Board member or advisor to
more than a dozen venture companies around the world

In 2018 Aaron was awarded EY Entrepreneur of the Year for the technology
and emerging industries category. In 2019 he was also named one of the top
50 technology leaders in IDG’s CIO50.
Aaron and his team are involved with regulatory, industry and

enterprise blockchain initiatives

across the globe. Aaron regularly speaks on
the international stage at events as a subject matter expert in the future of
decentralised ecosystems.

Jerry Yuan, Co-Founder and COO.
Jerry has 15 years’ experience across the Telco and ICT industry. Jerry is
highly experienced in developing partnerships with high value enterprise
companies. He was previously the Account/Sales Director for HUAWEI
Technologies. Jerry has global connections within the industry, especially in
the South Pacific Region. These connections will help Centrality achieve
global growth and adoption.

39

Daniel Gillespie, CSO
Daniel is an investment banking veteran
providing a broad knowledge of
fiduciary and corporate legal responsibilities through various markets. He
brings with him over 15 years of international banking and private equity
experience . His skill set covers strategic value creation, restructuring,
fund

raising, deal origination, investment and portfolio management and asset

realisations.

Nicole Upchurch, Chief Marketing Officer
Nicole brings her fierce passion for smart and effective marketing
communication to the role of GM Brand Experience. Combining a history of
working across a broad range of technology disciplines, Nicole is on a crusade
to ensure that Centrality is recognised globally as an edgy, market leading and
highly successful blockchain business.

Andy Higgs, GM Strategic Partnerships
Andy has a 20 year track record delivering growth, new business and performance
improvement in commercial leadership roles across public and private sector
organisations. Andy’s international experience includes Deloitte Consulting, MTV
Networks Europe and co-founding Accelerate Sport (now CSM), developing global
sport and entertainment rights based in London.

The Tech Team
Centrality has a large team of software engineers, testers, dev-ops specialists and designers working on the
development of the CENNZnet platform modules and use cases. This world class team provides the horsepower
to realise the vision in this whitepaper.

Wilfred Godfrey, Chief Technology
Officer
Wilfred has worked in technology both as an engineer and architect for 15 years and
is a world expert in the next wave of disruptive technologies. He’s the mastermind
behind the ‘Doughnut protocol’, which powers Centrality’s decentralised app
ecosystem and the next generation of decentralised technologies, including
decentralised storage, consortium chains, and

40

decentralised access control. Wilfred is active in the fields of AGI research and
complex systems design.

Jordan Maddison, Chief Design Officer
Jordan has been the lead designer for branding, UX and UI across more
than 10 successful start-ups to date. With a unique flair for bringing

design

and new technology together, she ensures users get the most out

of the

experience that will lead Centrality into the future.

Important: The team described above have developed the Centrality Platform. Centrality Platform Pte. Limited will
enter into an arrangement in relation to the intellectual property comprising the Centrality Platform on arm’slength
terms with Centrality Investments Limited. However, Centrality Platform Pte. Limited will not itself employ any of
the people described below. For more information about Centrality Platform Pte. Limited, please see the Centrality
Platform Pte. Limited section above.

Sources
1. Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy, Joseph Schumpeter 1942
2. The Wealth of Nations, Adam Smith 1776
3. How Venture Capital Works, Bob Zider, HBR Nov-Dec 1998 Issue
4. The Politically Incorrect Guide to Western Civilization, Anthony Esolen, 2008
5. Identification of Influencers - Measuring Influence in Customer Networks, C.Kiss 2008

41

