White Paper

2 0 2 0 .1 2 . 3 1

Content

The Layer2
platform for
Bitcoin

2

Background

3

Overview

4

Overall Structure

6

Economic system

8

Consensus algorithm

12

Account system

13

Community autonomy

14

Bitcoin financial platform

19

Digital asset gateway

28

Polkadot second-layer relay chain

29

Roadmap

30

Background

Bitcoin, a blockchain-based digital currency
with 21 million fixed supply, has seen its value
grow from almost zero to $20,000 in the past
11 years after its birth, which shows the
hallmarks of Bitcoin as a trading commodity.
Bitcoin was awarded the title of "Digital Gold"
in 2017 due to its irreplaceable features like
anti-inflation, decentralization, globalization,
anonymity and so on.
The meteoric rise of DeFi, Paypal’s olivebranch policy to take cryptocurrencies Bitcoin
included onboard, the newly-established
digital currency exchange by the
Development Bank of Singapore, and the
ostentatious display of support by Grayscale
in buying Bitcoins, events like these are too
many to exemplify one by one, but the
underlying importance and meaning far
exceeds the market value growth from
$4,000 to $20,000. This indicates that Bitcoin
is being re-recognized as a payment method,
perhaps only a tip of the iceberg in terms of
its full potential. Along with that, there are
also macro practices by the financial market:
Bitcoin's spillover effect (DeFi), derivatives
market, grayscale fund, etc.
The hidden potential of Bitcoin is being
tapped and released as it holds the key to
the digital currency world and leads towards
deeper blockchain breakthroughs. A
groundbreaking technological change
spearheaded by blockchain technology has
gotten underway in recent years, aiming to
start another major technological shift after
the Internet. Among many, the one that has
received the most attention is Bitcoin’s Layer
2 solution with extensive research being done
on it to expand and enhance the
performance of blockchain.

3

ChainX is committed to Layer 2 expansion
and asset gateway research of Bitcoin, well
positioned to provide high-performance
transaction trusteeship and interoperability
among chains in asset transfer.
Layer 2 technology is often dubbed as an
"off-chain" solution, expanding blockchain
networks while retaining the decentralized
advantages of distributive protocols. A good
blockchain ecosystem requires some
changes in the framework to balance
security, decentralization, and scalability.
That’s where layer 2 platform and protocol
which reduces the burden on the base layer
(root chain) is needed by reassigning part of
the data processing of the main chain to layer
2, thereby enhancing the scalability of the
entire blockchain network. Blockchain is
embarking on an evolving path towards a
multi-layered system. The layer 2 expansion
looks set to create new "usable" blockchain
systems with its influence percolating
through other industries, ushering an era
where blockchain layer 2 application
scenarios payment included will be
flourishing without damage being done to
layer 1.
ChainX Asset Gateway, the first project
developed on Substrate, works as the asset
transfer hub for the Polkadot ecosystem,
connecting assets outside Polkadot via its
inter-chain messaging protocol, opening
transferring routes among multiple chains
after success achieved in single ones. It
has gradually evolved into Polkadot's
second-layer relay chain, routing external
mainstream assets including Bitcoin into
Polkadot and incubating financial
derivatives and services.

Overview

4

ChainX, the earliest launched project in polkadot ecosystem, is based on Substrate
which is a blockchain framework development platform designed by the Parity
team led by Gavin Wood, Ethereum’s former CTO. It has universally applied State
Transition Function (STF) and modular components to reach consensus in terms of
network and configuration. In addition, it conforms to the standards and
conventions of the underlying data structure, in particular the Substrate Runtime
Module Library (SRML), which allows rapid creation of a new chain. And ChainX
attributes a substantial part of its growth and progress to the universal
applicability of the Substrate framework.
ChainX is committed to the research and
application of Bitcoin layer 2 expansion,
digital asset gateway and Polkadot secondlayer relay chain. In terms of governance and
operation, ChainX adopts a dynamic asset
mining model for safe governance and
efficient consensus; in terms of technical
implementation, ChainX manages to cross
mainstream cryptocurrencies onto chains
with different structures through the "light
node + trusteeship" scheme and forms a
digital asset gateway through its
decentralized Bitcoin trusteeship and interchain mirroring mechanism to make grounds
for transactions of all sorts of cryptos on the
same chain; besides, as the second layer of
Polkadot, ChianX dissects multi-chain
frameworks, builds parallel transfer bridges
and facilitates transactions among multiple
parties.
The initial version of ChainX is based on
Substrate 1.0 and operates smoothly for one
and half years. After Polkadot 2.0 was
officially released, ChainX spared no efforts to
upgrade its mainnet and launched the 2.0
version at the end of November 2020. On the
base framework of Substrate 2.0, ChainX 2.0
combines and coordinates various functions
like hybrid PoS consensus, on-chain council
governance, Wasm virtual machine, native
execution of smart

contracts, efficient light-client protocol, Offchain worker, and multi-signature, what’s
more it is highly compatible with Polkadot.
“One Asset One Vote” mining model,
pioneered by PoS consensus and adopted by
ChianX, stipulates that no ICO is planned and
assets like BTC, ETH and EOS deposited by
users through inter-chain technology should
participate in mining at their market value
along with the native token. For fear of unfair
competition, pre-mining practices and
computing power monopoly are prohibited
with a fair distribution system of PCX whose
generation model follows the footstep of
Bitcoin, gradually halving the supply of new
coins. Digital assets crossed onto ChainX can
be traded with other tokens on DApp
exchanges, associated with Bitcoin financial
derivatives and generate fair prices in terms
of assets’ market value for mining.
The decentralized light-node technology that
ChainX currently adopts integrates
mainstream digital assets across chains, with
Bitcoin standing as a prominent success. In
the future, more upgrading and
improvements can be expected in the interchain technology with added help from
methods like independent

Overview

trustee, MPC, and homomorphic encryption;
more Bitcoin financial derivatives will pop up
and flourish; and more mainstream
currencies such as ETH, ERC20, EOS, ADA,
and ZEC will be connected to ChainX. At the
same time, equal importance should be
attached to communities where users are
encouraged to transfer inter-chain assets
among one another and contribute to refine
the system, so that Bitcoin is stimulated with
constant value flow and DApps equipped
with the latest smart contract technology are
incubated.

5

At the era of digital economy, everything is an
asset with value which can be traded.
Cryptocurrencies represented by Bitcoin are
no exception and play an increasingly
important role in this new round of
international financial and monetary game,
which also paves the way for the meteoric
rise to fame of the underlying blockchain
technology. However, different chains were
isolated with no meaningful connections not
to mention inter-chain asset transfer, free
value flow or low-friction exchange. If the
dilemma couldn’t be solved, there would be
no connectivity and interoperability among
chains. To break the stalemate, ChainX
expands the layer 2 network of Bitcoin, serves
as the digital asset gateway and Polkadot
second-layer relay chain to create a safe and
stable inter-chain transfer system for assets
form all sorts of ecosystems.

Overall Structure

6

PCX Asset

DEX

X-BTC. X-DOT
BTC Derivatives

PCX Module

DEX Module

Cross-chain
module

Relay Module

ChainX Runtime

Synchronize node / Authentication node / TEE node

Bitcoin
Ethereum
Polkadot…

ChainX network, built on Substrate, is a
cross-level inter-chain interoperable asset
gateway, consisting of PCX, DEX, inter-chain
and relay modules, Bitcoin Layer 2 financial
platform and Polkadot second-layer relay
chain. The main components include:

Overall Structure

7

PCX module
an operating program based on the native
token PCX, it mainly includes functions
performed by PCX such as staking, paying
fees, on-chain governance, distributing interchain mining rewards, and backing Bitcoin
financial derivatives. PCX is related to most
programs running on ChainX.

DEX module
A cross-asset transaction module, it
promotes circulation of assets on different
chains while minimizing transaction costs.

Inter-chain module
An entering or exiting module for different
chain assets and X-Token, it mainly includes
an inter-chain transaction verification system,
on-chain mintage program, trusteeship
program, and deposit and withdrawal
program for X-Token.

Relay module
a window of information exchange and
verification between ChainX and outside
chains, it mainly includes chain information
update program, chain monitor program, and
inter-chain information collection and
transmission program.

Economic system

8

Token generation
The cryptocurrency PCX (P stands for Polkadot) issued by ChainX has 21 million supply in total.
In the initial dividend round or the first 210,000 cycles, 50 PCXs are distributed as rewards in
each cycle, and 25 PCXs for the second round. 20% of the issuance in the initial round which
accounts for 10% of the total goes to the founding team for ongoing development and all the
subsequent issuance goes to the community.

Mining
ChainX adopts “One Asset One Vote” mining model which is composed of two forms: interchain asset mining and voting mining. All participating parties compete together with PCX as
the computing power unit.
Inter-chain asset mining means that various
assets such as BTC, ETH, etc. that enter
ChainX through depositing, mapping or other
means participate in mining with virtual
computing power calculated for each.
Independent calculating methods are applied
to each inter-chain asset such as fixed
computing power calculation, market price
discount calculation, etc., which will be
explained in detail later. The calculation
method is mainly determined by community
voting. Inter-chain assets are discounted
when participating in mining

because PCX as the native token naturally
comes with greater mining power, which in
return encourages users to hold more PCX.
Voting mining refers to voting or staking real
PCX to certain nodes to participate in mining.

9

Computing power

The current ratio of interchain assets to PCX in terms
of mining power is set at 1:9
which can be adjusted
through community voting,
which means the maximum
mining power of all interchain assets is set to 10% to
ensure PCX voting mining
power greater than or equal
to 90%.

ChainX is a PoS system where total
computing power consists of PCX voting
mining power and inter-chain asset virtual
computing power with the system’s security
guaranteed by PCX, the more PCX, the better.
In addition, as an inter-chain asset gateway,
ChainX connects assets from other chains,
the more assets it connects, the greater the
value. Native assets and inter-chain assets
both participate in mining, competing with
while reinforcing each other. In order to avoid
sudden influx of inter-chain assets
overwhelming the system in the early stage,
dynamic mining model is adopted to cope
with rapid surges of inter-chain assets with a
fixed dividend ratio between the two.
Changes in mining model are determined by
the chain governance referendum.

Calculation formula
Power total = Power real + Power virtual
Power real = Staked
Power virtua l= sum ( Power c ), c ∈ { X-BTC, XETH, S-DOT, ... }
Power c = Amount c·Fixed
C·UbiquitousDiscount
The current mining power cap for all interchain assets is 10%, that is Power virtual :
Power real = 1:9
When Power virtual : Power real > 1:9 ,
the upper limit rule takes effect.
UbiquitousDiscount = Power real : 9 Power

Power

total

Power
PCX

real

Total computing power
Computing power by staking

Power virtual Virtual computing power of
inter-chain assets
Power c Total virtual computing power of
inter-chain asset C
Fixed C Fixed multiplier of unit inter-chain
asset C, with current Fixed BTC = 400·PCX
Amount
asset C

c

Total amount of inter-chain

vitual

When Power virtual : Power real <= 1:9
the upper limit rule becomes invalid.
UbiquitousDiscount = 1

UbiquitousDiscount
inter-chain assets

Dynamic discount for

Economic system

10

Income distribution
ChainX's mining income go to four parts: the founding team, the Treasury, PCX mining
users and inter-chain asset mining users. The distribution of income can be readjusted
with a referendum in future community governance.
The income data in the figure below is calculated based on the hard cap income

Treasury

20%

PCX mining

16% 57.6%
R

R

team

=R

total

inter-chain
mining 6.4%

Team

pcx

=R

total

· 80% · 80% · 90%
R

· 20%
R

R

treasury

=R

Power
PCX

total

real :

· 80% · 20% + R

remain

Computing power by staking

Power virtual : Virtual computing power of
inter-chain assets
R total : Total amount of PCX generated in a
dividend cycle
R team : Team income from the initial
dividend cycles
R

treasury

: Treasury incom

virtual

cap values

= (Power virtual / Power real ) · R real
= periodic dividend · 80% · 80% · 10%
R remain = R cap values - R virtual

R real : Income from PCX real mining power,
which is R real = periodic dividend · 80% ·
80% · 90%
R cap values : Hard cap income of inter-chain
asset dividends
R virtual : Actual mining income of interchain asset which goes to mining users
R remain : esidual mining income of interchian asset which belongs to the treasury

11

Team This part of earnings goes to the
founding team to cover ongoing development
costs
Treasury This part of earnings belongs to the
Treasury for community development and
parachain slot auctions.
PCX mining users This part of earnings is
rewards to PCX mining users.
Earnings of inter-chain asset mining are
rewards to the mining users. The specific
amount is calculated according to the ratio of
virtual mining power of inter-chain assets and
real mining power of PCX with the upper limit
set at 1:9, if not exceeding the limit, extra
earnings go to the Treasury.

Total income is calculated according to
the engagement and activities of interchain assets and PCX with income for a
single node obtained through the
proportion of real and virtual nodes,
and then income for a user is
calculated with regards to the number
of votes he or she has cast. When the
total number of inter-chain assets
surges to the upper limit, a discount on
all inter-chain assets will be imposed
compounded with the existing ones.

12

ChainX adopts the "Babe+Grandpa"
hybrid consensus, Polkadot's brandnew mechanism whose most notable
feature is to separate block
confirmation from block generation
with Babe module generating blocks
every 6 seconds and Grandpa making
the final confirmation.
In the traditional POW algorithm, the mining power of a
single machine is weak, unable to generate blocks
independently, which leaves joining a mining pool or building
one by one’s own the only option and results in only 10
mining pool nodes per chain. The initial POS chain usually
has about 7 nodes, and follow-up ones only dozens of
nodes. Therefore, blockchain’s decentralized advantages are
kept untapped with ordinary users unable to become
consensus nodes thus having no access to the ledge and
having to rely on large organizations.
The number of Consensus nodes in ChainX starts from a few
dozen, and gradually grows as the community evolves. At the
initial stage, cloud servers are needed to build consensus
nodes. Later users only need to download the desktop wallet
to generate blocks, but good internet environment and
computing power are required, or punishment may be
incurred if any block is delayed. The punishment funds will
be transferred to the Treasury and future referendums will
be held to decide how to use it.
The node’s profit model is to obtain 10% mining income of
users, and the specific proportion can be modified by future
referendums. Node dropout or other malicious behavior will
be punished by reducing daily user rewards. The election
cycle for each verification node is one hour and nodes will
be ranked according to the number of votes. If a node fails to
be selected as verification node, becomes a synchronizing
node, and heartbeat transactions also need to be initiated
with a real node and empty nodes are not allowed. Votes of
both consensus nodes and synchronizing nodes participate
in the mining reward distribution with the same benefit rate
so that the advancement of synchronizing nodes will not be
compromised.

Account system

ChainX currently charges a
transfer transaction for only
0.0001PCX. As ChainX's
performance and throughput
gradually improve, fees
become lower and can be
ignored. In the late stage of
network development,
additional issuance of chains
will gradually slow down and
user's mining income mainly
comes from transaction fees
and various kinds of
punishment fees.

13

In order to prevent DDOS, users need to pay
gas fee for transactions, and the system will
charge the corresponding fees according to
the complexity of different operations. Users
also have different accelerating options
according to the network congestion to
achieve flexible control. It seems that users
need to pay fees which however can be
balanced out by the mining income obtained
through mining and holding assets in the
early stage, enough to meet the trading
demands of non-frequent users. Besides,
consensus nodes draw transaction fees to
the node rewarding pool when packaging and
voting users can benefit from it. Therefore,
Users can still use the chain "for free" even in
this closed system, and most of the mining
users can make earnings with only a handful
of super-frequent users paying fees. Gas fee
is traditionally charged due to low throughput
of the chian, which leads to high transaction
costs.

PCX mainly has the following uses

Miner fees
Pay miner fees, similar to miner fees in the
Bitcoin network.

Collateral function
As the core collateral of bitcoin derivatives
and trusts, it is the Risk Modeling standard of
bitcoin finance and the main tool to improve
trust creditworthiness.

Metrics
The measurement standard in POS
consensus elections . The more votes people
get, the greater the responsibility. It is also a
mortgage and voting tool for on-chain
governance.

Market value unit
As the unit for asset mining, all assets are
converted into votes based on the PCX price,
similar to ECR20 in Ethereum.

Exchange medium
In the system-integrated transaction Dapp, it
serves as the base currency and exchange
medium for obtaining other assets.

14

Tricameral governance structure is
adopted by ChainX at the advice of
Polkadot for better decentralized
community governance, including
Referendum Chamber, Council and
Technical Committee. In addition to the
three, X-Association and Treasury are
introduced to enrich the framework of
community autonomy.

Referendum chamber
The Referendum Chamber has the most members (all token holders) and the highest authority.
All "legislations" (Runtime logic modifications) must go through a democratic referendum. Now
that ChainX is based on Substrate2.0, the community or Council can submit a proposal for
referendum. If approved, the system automatically modifies ChainX’s Runtime logic and
upgrades without forking.

Council
Given the fact that referendum alone cannot rule effectively, that’s where the Council comes
handy in dealing with day-to-day affairs. Council members are elected by token holders with
Phragmén election algorithm. There are currently 11 members on the Council and 7 more as
alternates, with re-election every 24 hours which generally sees few changes.
Council election

Participation

Users who run for the election should submit a candidate application
form to the Council with 10 PCX staked which will be returned if they
are elected as a member or alternate, otherwise the Treasury will lay
claim to it. This mechanism helps eliminate malicious participation
which unnecessarily occupies chain resources.

Voting

Users holding PCX can cast their ballots at the Council page. Each vote
at most selects 16 candidates with the amount of voting assets
specified and 0.01 PCX staked. Casted votes can be withdrawn at any
time with staked assets returned.

Announcing result

Each election cycle lasts one day. Votes are counted after the cycle to
form new Council.

15

Main responsibilities of the Council

Revoking penalties
The Council has the right to revoke staking penalties
caused by network errors if the threshold of at least 1/2
of the members is met

Submitting referendum proposals
The Council has the right to submit a referendum
proposal to upgrade the RUNTIME logic if certain
consensus is reached within the Council.

Calling out a referendum
The Council has the right to call out a referendum at the
last minute with 2/3 majority when a malicious or wrong
referendum proposal is about to implement. Staked
assets behind the improper proposal are confiscated by
Treasury.

Voting on Treasury proposals
The Council votes on Treasury proposals and Tips which
are approved if 3/5 or more members agree, and rejected
if over 1/2 members disagree.

16

Technical Committee

Main responsibilities of the technical committee

Submitting emergency proposals
Technical committee has the right to submit an
emergency proposal with the Council’s permission when
a bug or upgrading need is detected. The proposal
immediately goes through the referendum without
further delay.

Vetoing the Council’s referendum proposals
Technical committee has the right to veto proposals
with the Treasury getting the staked assets if unanimous
agreement is reached within the committee or the root
cause (such as sudo or Council) triggers the process.

17

X - Association
X-Association, a non-profit organization, is fully committed to the development of the chain of
ChainX and surrounding ecosystem. X-Association is composed of experts and enthusiasts who
are no stranger to ChainX’s chain, community management, blockchain technology and
development, and stand ready to contribute to ChainX for a long time.

X-Association membership
The initial members including 1 secretary general and 4 secretaries are elected by the Council, but
to ensure management e!ciency and continuity, X-Association when fully established, decides the
replacement of personnel on its own and reports to the Council about the changes. The council
has the right to remove one or more members with two-thirds majority. Dynamic working groups
under X-Association, led by the secretary general or a secretary, are set to complete specific tasks.

With the permission of the Council,
X-Association performs the following duties

Providing advice or consulting services
to the development and new planning
of the chain

Supporting, promoting and governing
ChainX communities (fans and
developers)

Providing direct technical support to
ChainX’s users and developers

Coordinating and managing various
development teams of the chain

Releasing reports on work and fund
usage on a regular basis to the council
and the community

X-Association’s funding source and funding management
X-Association has a separate PCX account to which grants from the Council are issued regularly.
The account is a 3/5 multi-signature account with the secretary-general and 4 secretaries
holding private keys respectively. The account is renewed if there are personnel changes.

18

Treasury
The Treasury is a PCX funding pool to which staking penalties on the network, residual income
of inter-chain mining, staked assets in running for the Council election, and confiscated assets
of failed proposals flow. The Treasury provides financial support to projects promoting ChainX
development and facilitating ecosystem growth. As the network grows, contributing individuals,
organizations and companies are eligible to apply for treasury funds as incentives.

The Layer2 platform for Bitcoin

Bitcoin financial platform

19

The Layer2 platform for Bitcoin

20

Bitcoin trusteeship

The Bitcoin network cannot integrate light
nodes of other chains to form smart
contracts, which means assets are trapped in
their own systems. ChainX came up with a
scheme to break the dilemma with the "light
node + trusteeship” scheme that allows chain
crossing. So far Bitcoin light-node bridge and
X-BTC1.0 trusteeship scheme have been
finished, enabling completely decentralized
mapping of Bitcoin onto ChainX. In addition,
the latest logic framework of X-BTC
trusteeship has been established and will be
launched in the foreseeable future.

X-BTC1.0——Trust node
trusteeship scheme
In X-BTC 1.0, trustees are good-performing
nodes in ChainX’s testnet, with new nodes
chosen by abdicating ones, which requires
the Council’s permission before taking effect.
There is a hot multi-signature address or
contract and a cold one generated by each
trust node. Funds are transferred to new
addresses after each renewal with users
having access to the real-time data of interchain assets flow and reserves, thus no trust
node can unilaterally misappropriate the
fund.

In X-BTC 1.0 trusteeship scheme, users
initiate a transaction from a Bitcoin account
to a multi-signature trustee address by
adding ChainX’s account address in the Note
to bind the two addresses together, which
once done, does not need repeating second
time for the network can automatically
recognize the binding. X-BTC is issued based
on the transactions of users’ Bitcoin address.

The Layer2 platform for Bitcoin

21

X-BTC 1.0 trusteeship process
Inter-chain deposits
Run Bitcoin light nodes on the
chain, and send Header in real
time by Relay to keep the
longest chain updated;
Users transfer assets to the hot
address of a trustee with ChainX
address in hexadecimal form
and other information attached
to OP_RETURN with which
transfer bridge can identify
related ChainX users;

Real-time Relay

ChainX Txs

Header X

Bitcoin
Light-client

Inter-chain Tx

Header X

Relay monitors the Bitcoin network and submits related information including Tx Proof path
and OP_RETURN to the transfer bridge after pinpointing the block in which this transaction is
located and obtaining the permission from the chain.;
The transfer bridge after verifying Tx and OP_RETURN note decrypts the ChainX address
attached to OP_RETURN and issues the transferred amount to that address.
Inter-chain withdrawal
Users submit a Bitcoin
withdrawal application to
ChainX;
The recording module in ChainX
transfer bridge or gateway locks
the corresponding X-BTC and
keeps the application
information in record which is
trackable with a unique ID;

Users’ Withdrawals

2/3 Multisig
Hot/Cold Address

The withdrawal information is periodically obtained by a trustee which forms the withdrawal
text;
ChainX transfer bridge locks the corresponding withdrawal amount after receiving the text
which also requires other trustees to sign;
Relay submits the text after required signatures are signed to the Bitcoin network;
Relay then submits the withdrawal transaction and its proof path to the transfer bridge after
the transaction is confirmed;
Transfer bridge closes the withdrawal record and destroys the locked X-BTC after Tx id
proved to be valid.

The Layer2 platform for Bitcoin

X-BTC2.0——Vault trusteeship
scheme

22

X-BTC 2.0 is a trustless and highly efficient
inter-chain asset system based on the
XCLAIM framework through which two
protocols are introduced to enable
distributive, transparent, consistent, and anticensorship cross-region blockchain
transactions. The most prominent difference
from X-BTC 1.0 is the Vault (asset custodian)
mechanism which allows more people to
engage in assets’ chain crossing.

X-BTC 2.0 Vault advantages
XCLAIM overcomes the limitations of
centralization in the following ways

Security auditing log

Proof of transaction inclusion

Build a log to record all users' behavior
on Bitcoin and ChainX

Relay is used to prove to ChainX the
correct behavior on Bitcoin

Proof or punishment

Excessive collateral

XCLAIM does not rely on last-minute
fraud proof (which renders the system
passive), but requires proactive proof of
correct behavior

Untrusted Vaults, subjected to
collateral (PCX), have to establish a
mechanism to mitigate exchange rate
fluctuations

The Layer2 platform for Bitcoin

23

X-BTC 2.0 Vault scheme process
Inter-chain deposit
Vault locks collateral on the
ChainX chain;
Users transfer Bitcoins to Vault
for locking;
Submit lock proof to ChainX;
ChainX smart contract locks the
amount in Vault and issues XBTC to the user’s account.

User

Prove”Lock”

BTC

Smart
Contract

X-BTC

User

Vault

Inter-chain withdrawal
Users burn X-BTC through
ChainX smart contract;
Vault transfers Bitcoins to the
user after witnessing the unlock
event;
Vault submits the release proof
to ChainX to unlock the
collateral.

User
Verify

Smart
Contract

Release collateral
Release BTC

Burn X-BTC
Prove”Ralease”

Vault

User
Unlock event

The Layer2 platform for Bitcoin

X-BTC 3.0——MPC-based
trusteeship scheme

24

X-BTC 3.0 manages to cross assets onto
other chains with MPC in a network
composed of Trader nodes which contribute
computing power to sustain the system.
There are two main branches in MPC (Multiparty Computation): "secure multi-party
computation based on garbled circuits" and
"secure multi-party computation based on
secret sharing", and X-BTC 3.0 uses the latter
which is based on Shamir's Secret Sharing to
encrypt and send out data.
ChainX plans to start with 100 seats and 28day election cycle. All trader nodes are
randomly grouped with the private key pieces
they are holding renewed every 48 hours.
Assume each group has N nodes, and each
transaction requires signatures of at least M
nodes(M<N) to be approved. There is also a
punishment system in place to deter trader
nodes from violating the agreement for
improper gains.
The main advantage of X-BTC 3.0 is the
complete decoupling between MPC and the
contract module, which means the chain is
able to connect with other chains as long
as the MPC algorithm is supported by the
chain and compatible with other chains.
MPC’s high compatibility with multi-chain
system is a prominent advantage and it is
o!-chain, which avoids the risk of contract
being hacked, another highlight.

The Layer2 platform for Bitcoin

25

How MPC works

Encryption

S1
S2

Sercet

S3

Sercet

SM
Decrypt
SN

The Layer2 platform for Bitcoin

X-BTC 4.0——Decentralized and
autonomous trusteeship scheme

26

X-BTC 4.0 modifies the MPC algorithm and
resets the threshold to enable users to hold
the private key pieces themselves, what’s
more the pieces they hold have the veto right,
which means a user’s assets cannot be
moved without his or her involvement in
decryption, thereby guarantees BTC asset
security in the trust and greatly reduces the
amount of collateral needed to a level even
lower than the amount of inter-chain assets.
This is the most ideal solution.

For example, if a user wants to redeem X-BTC, the steps are as following
Calculate the number of needed encrypted pieces and send the request to relevant
trader nodes;
N trader nodes respond with their own pieces;
These nodes then send the request to other trader nodes in the same group;
When a node receives more than M pieces, Signature_share_nodes are construted,
along with Signature_share_user to retrieve the private key and complete the
transaction signature.

The Layer2 platform for Bitcoin

27

Bitcoin derivative
platform

BTC Futures

Mixed Assets

Light node

BTC Option

Digital assets ETN

Trusteeship
Digital assets ETF

Bitcoin

Bitcoin financial platform

Digital asset gateway

28

Digital asset
gateway

ChainX asset gateway is composed of
two parts: decentralized Bitcoin
trusteeship and inter-chain asset
mirroring. Users deposit and
collateralize bitcoins for X-BTC which
is used in transactions with synthetic
assets of other cryptocurrencies, so
that all sorts of cryptos can be
exchanged and traded on the same
chain.
Synthetic asset of cryptos is a
mirroring simulation of the target
asset. Like derivatives in the traditional
financial market, virtual assets pegged
to cryptocurrencies are created, with
blockchain functioning as the
traditional trading market. In short,
what the synthetic asset does is to
copy prices of original
cryptocurrencies, so that people can
directly trade these virtual assets on
the chain.
ChainX inter-chain asset mirroring
uses X-BTC as locked collateral to
map or generate synthetic assets
which can be exchanged through
smart contracts without requiring a
trading medium. ChianX rewards XBTC holders who issue synthetic
assets for the contribution they’ve
made, thereby encouraging users to
hold and lock X-BTC whose value is
pegged to Bitcoin.

BTC

Token

PCX
X-Token

DOT

Collateral

X-BTC

X-Token

BTC custody

inter-chain
asset mirroring

Synthetic
asset circulation

Polkadot second-layer relay chain

29

Polkadot secondlayer relay chain

Relay Chain

Relay Chain

ChainX relay chain
The highest security guarantee, responsible
for the overall security consensus of the
second-layer network.
Parallel transfer bridge
Split transfer bridges to independent
parachains to share the burden.
Transaction parachain
Provide free matching services to assets
within the system to improve transaction
throughput.
DAPP Parachain
Various applications developed by the
community can run independently with interchain connection being in place.

Bridge
Para-chains

Trade
Para-chains

DAPP
Para-chains

Roadmap

30

h t t p s : // c h a i n x . o r g

