Covesting White Paper (v2)
www.covesting.io

1

LEGAL CONSIDERATIONS,
RISKS AND DISCLAIMER
IMPORTANT NOTICE: PLEASE READ THE ENTIRETY OF THIS SECTION
CAREFULLY. WE RECOMMEND YOU CONSULT A LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX OR
OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S) OR EXPERTS FOR FURTHER GUIDANCE
PRIOR TO USING COVESTING SERVICES OR PURCHASING COV TOKEN.
The contents of the “Legal Considerations, Risks and Disclaimer” section outlines the
terms and conditions applicable to you in connection with (i) your use of this White
Paper and of any and all information available on the Website; and/or (ii) your
participation in the Token Sale and/or purchase of COV tokens, in each case in addition
to any other terms and conditions that we may publish from time to time relating to this
White Paper, the Website and the COV Token (such terms hereinafter referred to as the
“Terms”). The information set forth in the “Legal Considerations, Risks and Disclaimer”
section may not be exhaustive and does not imply any elements of a contractual
relationship. While we make every reasonable effort to ensure that all information: (i) in
this White Paper; and (ii) available on the Website (all the information in the White Paper
and all information available on the Website hereinafter referred to as the “Available
Information”) is accurate and up to date, such material in no way constitutes
professional advice. The Company does not recommend purchasing COV Tokens for
speculative investment purposes. Tokens do not entitle you to any equity, governance,
voting or similar right or entitlement in the Company or in any of its affiliated
companies. The Company does not recommend that you purchase Tokens unless you
have prior experience with cryptographic tokens, blockchain-based software and
distributed ledger technology and unless you have taken independent professional
advice.
Services described in this Whitepaper are not available to citizens, nationals,
residents (tax or otherwise) and/or green card holders of the United States of
America or any other jurisdiction which prohibits the possession, dissemination or
communication of the Available Information and/or prohibits the purchase of COV
Tokens or any such similar activity. In no event shall the Company or any current or
former Company Representatives be liable for the Excluded Liability Matters. The
Company does not make or purport to make, and hereby disclaims, any representation,
warranty or undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person, including any
representation, warranty or undertaking in relation to the truth, accuracy and
completeness of any of the information set out in the Available Information.

2

1. Introduction
Covesting is a fully licensed distributed ledger technology (DLT) services provider
incorporated under the laws of Gibraltar. We develop innovative trading tools to service
both retail and institutional customers in the cryptocurrency space.
We aim to provide transparency and insight into our product development lifecycle and
give a detailed overview of the business as part of this document. All aspects of the
company’s financial status are fully disclosed to the GFSC and are in compliance with all
regulatory capital standards and guidelines.
This paper is for general information purposes only. It does not constitute investment
advice or a recommendation or solicitation to buy or sell any investment and should not
be used in the evaluation of the merits of making any investment decision. It should not
be relied upon for accounting, legal or tax advice or investment recommendations. The
opinions reflected herein are subject to change without being updated.

2. Covesting, a peer-2-peer platform
Covesting copy trading platform – the essence and core of the Covesting infrastructure.
It implements a successful peer-2-peer business model and disrupts the traditional
investment management industry.
A Peer-to-Peer, or P2P, service itself is a platform whereby two individuals interact
directly with each other.
Some popular examples of P2P services are:
• BitTorrent – a popular anonymous file-sharing platform where uploaders and
downloaders meet to swap media and software files.
• AirBnB – allows property owners to lease all or part of their property to short-term
renters.
• Uber – a platform for car owners to offer transportation services to others
• eBay – a marketplace for private sellers of goods to find interested buyers.
• Etsy – enables producers of crafts and other homemade goods to sell their items
directly to the public
By pairing the peer-2-peer business model and the cryptocurrency investment industry,
Covesting offers a fantastic opportunity to utilize the wisdom of experienced traders in
order to achieve positive trading results.
Covesting allows platform users to browse through hundreds of trading strategies
provided by other traders, and automatically copy their trading activity. With Covesting,
you can achieve the same returns as the leading traders on the platform.
At the same time, Covesting platform allows traders to share their trading results with
the public and compete with other traders in a transparent environment. Every trader
3

can monetize their skills and earn a second income by receiving success fees from their
followers. The more followers they will acquire - the more money they’ll make from
profitable trading.
With the features described above, the Covesting platform creates a synergized
marketplace that brings users, and traders together. All parties benefit from the
Covesting platform: cryptocurrency traders get visibility to new audiences and sources
of additional income, while other users get a broad range of trading strategies they may
follow with the ability to analyze historical performance in order to make informed
decisions.
Our goal is to offer a safe and efficient peer-2-peer environment with a win-win solution
for both traders and their followers.

3. Covesting COV token
The Covesting Token is an ERC20 utility token built on Ethereum blockchain, designed
to be used within the Covesting products. Thus, demand for COV token correlates with
the activity on the platform. We aim to allocate up to 50% of all platform earnings to a
systematic token burn program. This form of reward sets best practices for the COV
token economy, and simultaneously serves in the best interests of Covesting token
holders. Technically speaking, part of the earnings in COV tokens will be taken off the
market, thus decreasing the total supply of COV tokens.
Covesting aims to establish partnerships with a number of third-party trading platforms
and exchanges to provide a seamless copy-trading experience. Every integration will
include COV token utility.
Contract
Decimals
Symbol
Max supply
Explorer

0xada86b1b313d1d5267e3fc0bb303f0a2b66d0ea7
18
COV
20,000,000
https://etherscan.io/token/0xada86b1b313d1d5267e3fc0bb303f0a2b66d0ea7

For more information about COV token utilities and existing partners please go to
https://covesting.io/cov-token
COV token is not available in the United States or other jurisdictions where transactions in
such ERC-20 tokens/cryptocurrencies as COV is prohibited by law (‘prohibited
jurisdictions’). If you are located in, incorporated or otherwise established in, or a resident
of the United States of America or any other prohibited jurisdiction, you are not permitted
to transact in COV.

4

4. Moving from B2C to B2B
Covesting has experienced rapid changes and conceptual upgrades since 2017. As has
been proven, the Covesting team excels in developing cutting-edge trading technology,
and we strongly believe that providing our trading technology to established exchanges
and trading platforms will put Covesting in a more advantageous position rather than
competing with these platforms directly. Therefore, the Covesting team decided to shift
its focus towards B2B partnerships that would facilitate the release of the copy trading
module on third-party platforms. Partners have an already established user base that
can be introduced to Covesting’s proprietary technology and the COV utility token. With
each new established partner, both Covesting and the COV utility token will reach an
increasingly larger user base, accomplishing the original function of a utility token and
bolstering the brand’s reputation. COV token will provide multiple utilities such as
trading fee discounts as well as additional unique features and benefits.

5. Other Covesting products
Apart from the core product - copy-trading platform, the Covesting team has also been
working on other products throughout 2018 and 2019, including:
• Covesting Digital Asset Exchange
• Liquidity Aggregation
• Crypto Intelligence Portal
Here is the end result of each product development cycle, and the version of the
product we have ultimately delivered:
Covesting Digital Asset Exchange
Version: 1.0
Status: Released
The Covesting digital asset exchange was released as a beta starting on April 1, 2018,
and is currently in operation. The platform and infrastructure are custom-built from the
ground up, rather than relying on limited, out-of-the-box solutions.
Covesting maintains the highest level of security, and the platform has never been
compromised or suffered an intrusion of any kind. We also provide safe and secure
custody of assets, and meet all regulatory guidelines to ensure the safest platform
conditions possible, free from market manipulation.
In 2017, launching a cryptocurrency exchange was a brilliant idea, but in 2018 alone
over 500 new exchanges emerged, all competing for the same set of market participants
who remained following the early 2018 crypto market collapse.
5

There’s no new demand for cryptocurrency exchanges or news and analysis websites,
regardless of if the vendor is fully licensed or not.
Only a few large players were able to establish their positions as leaders in the space, in
terms of both trading platforms and information outlets. These large players are more
than enough to serve the demand in the crypto market, making it difficult for others to
capture a piece of the share. We plan to continue to maintain the Covesting exchange
and everything that entails, including the infrastructure, nodes, wallets, treasury,
trading engine, and more.
As of 2020, Covesting still remains one of very few regulated cryptocurrency
exchanges in the world.
Covesting Digital Asset Exchange can be accessed through
https://covesting.io/id/sign-in
Liquidity Aggregation
Version: 1.2
Status: Released
Liquidity aggregation was among the first engines that the Covesting team deployed,
helping the Covesting exchange to have a full, liquid order book from the moment it
launched.
While other platforms struggled to build trading volumes, Covesting’s order books were
deep and ready for instant order execution dating all the way back to the platform’s beta
release in early 2018. Liquidity aggregation still powers the Covesting digital asset
exchange today.
Crypto Intelligence Portal
Version: Beta
Status: Released, Discontinued
The Covesting team had a vision of launching an all-inclusive information resource
designed for the cryptocurrency industry. The idea was to educate the crypto
community in order to help them make informed decisions about the investments and
trades they make.
As was outlined in the original Covesting white paper, the Crypto Intelligence Portal
would include:
• An integrated news feed from top industry resources.
• Original blog posts and articles from traders, analysts, and journalists from
throughout the crypto space.
• Trade ideas with technical analysis and trading strategies from the best professional
traders across the market.
• A robust Crypto Academy with A-to-Z education, video tutorials, and much more
6

• A complete glossary for cryptocurrency-related terminology.
• A collection of cryptocurrency resource links for additional education.
• Active community where investors and traders can interact and discuss the latest
market trends, developments, and trading ideas.
While we still firmly believe that the Crypto Intelligence Portal hosts a wealth of useful
information, we have decided to cease its operations due to the low demand for this
type of information and high competition in the media space.
However, the Crypto Intelligence Portal remains active via https://ci.covesting.io and
still includes the Crypto Academy, complete with lessons and video tutorials that
educate traders with helpful how-tos.
References:
• Covesting Has Officially Received Their DLT License
https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/crypto-gets-regulated-covesting-hasofficially-received-their-dlt-license-300734513.html
• Covesting Has Officially Announced the Soft Launch of Their Platform
https://www.bloomberg.com/press-releases/2018-11-13/covesting-has-officially-a
nnounced-the-soft-launch-of-their-platform
• Covesting and PrimeXBT to Launch Copy Trading in Groundbreaking New
Partnership
https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/covesting-and-primexbt-to-launch-c
opy-trading-in-groundbreaking-new-partnership-300825368.html
• Covesting module on PrimeXBT https://primexbt.com/covesting
• Covesting Full Launch Is Here: Key Beta Takeaways And COV Token Utility
https://medium.com/covesting/covesting-full-launch-is-here-key-beta-takeawaysand-cov-token-utility-cc9707617b00

7

41

