CRYPTO BANK
C-BANK is an integrated virtual asset management
platform where various assets of different exchanges can
be managed in one platform. CBANK also enables easy
transfer and real-time payment in af liated stores.

fi

white pa per Ve r 1.0

Whi t e p ap e r

Contents

1. Summary

3

2. Changes and Opportunities

4

3. Issues to Address

6

4. Crypto Bank Solution

7

1) Integrated Asset Management
2) Easy Transfer
3) Smart QR Payment System

5. Three Advantages of Crypto Bank

12

1) Convenience
2) Security
3) Scalability

6. C-BANK TOKEN

15

7. Team and Advisors

16

8. Partners

17

hi teep
Whi t eW
p ap
r a p er

Summary
Virtual asset is one of the most innovative technologies existing today, but there are some analog inconveniences
that hinder practical usage. Some of the difficulties are: 1. cumbersome asset management due to different virtual
assets listed on various exchanges, and 2. the complicated transfer process in which a complex and long wallet
address must be entered each time. Another issue is that because the virtual assets are only traded on the
exchange, and they do not have a daily usage. To address such porblems, Crypto Bank presents an optimized
platform for smart virtual asset management and usage.
In a way, Crypto Bank is the virtual asset version of the popular app Toss in Korea. Toss integrates several accounts
different banks and financial institutions. Using the exchange's API key, users can manage various virtual assets with
one application. By registering friends, transfers and remittances can be made in few easy steps. Also, the user can
deposit their virtual assets in the Crypto Bank custodial (trusted) account to make real-time payments with virtual
assets any time at the affiliated stores.
Crypto Bank enables virtual payments with a single QR through a patented technology called the Smart QR system,
which is compatible with various existing payments such as Kakao Pay and Zero Pay in Korea. With the recent
outbreak of Covid-19, the global society has been plunged into a non-contact culture. In such environment, QR
payment is rapidly emerging as an ideal non-contact payment system. Keeping pace with such changing times,
Crypto Bank offers a convenient integrated solution that enables the real-time payment and settlement using
virtual assets.

3

Whi t e p ap e r

Changes and Opportunities

We are moving towards a cashless society. Since 2018, Starbucks has been piloting cashless store campaign,
successfully expanding the system nationwide in Korea. As more stores are adopting cashless payment system,
most of franchise stores and even small businesses are implementing digital payment devices such as POS and
kiosks. Thus, cash payment is becoming more and more obsolete.
Such a phenomenon suggests more than the diversification of payment systems or advancement of
technology. We need to pay attention to a more fundamental change taking place in our world. While the
movement towards a cashless society is an external phenomenon, the cause of such change is due to the
digitalization of money and the transition to a non-contact society.

With the internet taking over the everyday life, people have become accustomed to the digitalization of values.
We know that the numbers on the bank account are not just numbers, they are values. People know that
sending and receiving numbers mean an exchange of value. This is a digitalized trust system. We no longer need
to carry money in their wallets, because digital payments are possible anytime, anywhere with a smartphone
that can perform complex functions in simple steps.

4

Whi t e p ap e r

Changes and Opportunities

Moreover, the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic forced the implementation of non-contact daily life for the global
population. It has become the norm to wear a mask outside. In addition to wearing masks, many aspects of our
society are already transformed to adapt to a non-contact society. It is no coincidence that cash payments are
disappearing and while digital payments are taking over. We must be ready to face to such a huge flow of
change.

Virtual Asset’s Every Possibility
In One Service

Changes are often perceived as crisis.
Change is a process of going through pain to discard familiarity in
everyday life with unfamiliarity.
However, one can accept the change as an opportunity for improvement or innovation. Whether to accept
change as a crisis or an opportunity depends on one's choice. People who see change as a crisis stay stagnant.
Those who see change as an opportunity will continue to move forward. Eventually, the world will adapt to
change over time. In the end, people will realize that the Covid-19 pandemic was the catalyst for further
progress. The digitalization of money and the transition to a non-contact society foretell the emergence of a
new market. Such changes are also a golden opportunity to for those who seek to venture into unfamiliar
territory.

5

Whi t e p ap e r

Issues to Address

Virtual asset holders suffer from the inconvenience of using multiple exchanges at the same time because each
exchange handles different types of virtual assets. Another issue is that the each exchange implements different
security policies, making it difficult to systematically manage assets. While the user ID, password, and OTP are
basic requirement for security, in some cases, additional requests such as email approval, text authentication,
and security number are necessary. Such complex security measures cause the user to forget or lose the log-in
security authentication information. Once the information is lost, it is nearly impossible to remit or withdraw
the assets. This is why an integrated asset management platform is desperately needed.
The virtual asset settlement platform poses another issue. There have been attempts to use virtual assets for
payment. However, there has been constantly criticized that virtual assets are not suitable for real-time
payments because of their slow transfer and high volatility. Nevertheless, attempts to link virtual assets with
daily consumer life are gradually gaining more meaningful results.
Still, many challenges remain to be solved. Most virtual asset payment platforms fail to attract offline affiliates
because they only support limited payments on online channels. However, the platforms end up focusing on
online stores because it is practically impossible to recognize virtual assets with the conventional Point of Sales
terminal devices. While there are places that accept payment with virtual assets through paper QR codes, most
stores do not welcome the use of QR codes since it creates clutter on the payment counters and the settlement
process is not intuitive. For a payment system to be widely accepted, both the users and stores should not
experience any inconvenience during the payment and settlement process. Unfortunately, there is a wide gap
between the digitalized virtual assets and still analogous payment and settlement systems.

6

Whi t e p ap e r

Cryptobank Solution

“

Crypto Bank provides an integrated asset management platform.

Integrated
Asset Management

”

“

Easy Transfer

”

Using the Application Programming Interface (API) key provided by the exchange, the
functions of various exchanges can be used in one application. On the Crypto Bank
platform, users can check the overall asset status at a glance, and check the market price of
assets on different exchanges. In addition, arbitrage trading is possible by using the asset
transfer function.

Crypto Bank provides an easy transfer service with a single
registration.
Once a friend is registered on the user's account, the user can send virtual assets to the
friend by selecting an exchange the user's choice. On Crypto Bank, the user can enter the
transfer amount in KRW to remit virtual assets for easier usage. The existing method for
virtual asset transfer from one exchange to another requires entering the quantity. For
example, to transfer Bitcoin, the user needs to enter the quantity to the decimal point.
However, Crypto Bank makes the remittance process much easier because the amount of
the token is automatically calculated according to the market price when the user enters

“

the transfer amount in KRW.

Smart QR Payment
System

”

Easy payment at a liate stores with an integrated QR.
Crypto Bank's unique Smart QR Payment system is a patented technology that enables two
QR code reading devices to process a QR code twice to mutually confirm the information
and proceed with the correct payment process. This method enhances security and makes
the payment process as simple as using a credit card since the whole process is made
through the POS machine of an affiliate store where QR code is generated. Crypto Bank's
Smart QR Payment system can recognize the information of various payment systems with
only one QR, so it has excellent scalability to support wide range of payments. Therefore,
Crypto Bank provides the convenience for both the users and store managers.

The following describes the Crypto Bank's payment process: The user selects a virtual asset for payment on the
Crypto Bank mobile app and scans the QR code displayed on POS. Payment is made by subtracting the quantity of
the virtual asset equivalent to the price of the product. At this point, the quantity of the token is determined by the
market price at the time of payment.
The deducted virtual asset is immediately sold at the current market price and deposited as cash. The affiliated store
receives settlement in KRW through a settlement company (payment gateway) designated by Crypto Bank after the
third business day. This process is similar to the existing credit card payment settlement. As customers do not have
to worry about the volatility of virtual assets when making payment, they become more comfortable with using
virtual asset settlement.

ffi

7

Whi t e p ap e r

Crypto Bank Solution

Immediate deduction of the user’s virtual asset at the time of payment at
the real-time exchange rate. The sold token is settled with the store in at
currency.
While Crypto Bank is a virtual asset management and payment platform, it emphasizes the fintech integrated
payment model. The platform must be able to integrate with the existing payment system to attract offline
franchises, rather than introduce a totally new system. To expedite the integration, Crypto Bank is taking the
lead in distributing POS to affiliates of top POS service providers, Daewon POS, Chanyul, and Paycrux. Also,
the platform is cooperating with T-Payment, a taxi payment company, to supply virtual asset payment devices
to private taxis in Gyeonggi, Incheon, and Daegu.

User Payment Process

① Payment

Crypto Bank

User

Af liates

② Virtual asset
deducted according to
the exchange rate

④ settlement in at
③ Deducted virtual asset
Immediately sold and deposited

fi

fi

fi

8

Whi t e p ap e r

Three Advantages of Crypto Bank

Convenience

Crypto Bank allows the users to easily manage virtual assets that have been stored
across multiple exchanges in one app. Virtual asset transfer and remittance can be
processed easily with just few taps. In addition, real-time payments can be made
with virtual assets without any technological barrier, with similar interface with the
rapidly rising QR Pay trend.

Convenience

Security

Extensibility

Management of virtual assets,

2-Tiered encrypted

Applicable to various payment

security system

and transfer system

convenient on-and-o ine payment

ffl

9

Whi t e p ap e r

Three Advantages of Crypto Bank

Security

Crypto Bank implements a three-tier security system to protect the user's personal
information. Step 1 is mobile phone identification; Step 2 is convenient password; and
Step 3 is biometric authentication.

Also, Crypto Bank fundamentally prevents the user's
virtual assets from being leaked or hacked from external
attacks by storing user's lock and key separately with
double encryption.

User
User’s lock and key separately stored with double encryption
External hacking prevented with separate storage

10

Whi t e p ap e r

Three Advantages of Crypto Bank

Scalability

The fintech technology embodied in Crypto Bank's Smart QR Payment system has
excellent scalability that can be applied to various services, platforms, and
systems. Virtual asset payment and various point payment system can be
converged with the existing payment methods with simple software update. The
technology can be applied to online and offline affiliates as well as remittance
services.

Such scalability enables Crypto Bank to become a comprehensive and integrated platform that
provides various services without competing for users with the existing companies. In addition,
users can also donate their virtual assets on World Vision to help children in need globally.

Easy

Service

Existing payment system

Applicable to payment,

used with simple

transfer service and on-and-

software update

offline store services

Platform

Global

Integrated platform to

A global service that caters

provide service without

to international users and

completing with the existing

service providers

service providers

11

Whi t e p ap e r

TOKEN ECONOMY
Crypto Bank, in simple terms, is an integrated virtual asset management platform, but on a deeper level, it is not a
project aims to serve only the virtual asset users. Crypto Bank pursues the naturally induced popularization of the
blockchain by adding the payment function to connect the blockchain ecosystem and the daily life to expand the
boundaries of virtual assets. In other words, Crypto Bank is a blockchain project for everyone. C-BANK is a utility
token that implements Crypto Bank 's blockchain philosophy.

The following explains the C-BANK token design.

1. On and offline real-time payment
Crypto Bank fully supports the online payment system using virtual assets, as such service has already been realized
in many projects. One differentiation of Crypto Bank is its offline payment service. Thanks to Crypto Bank k's
patented Smart QR Payment system, it is possible to pay with virtual assets with a simple software update on
various POS of the affiliates. The users of virtual assets and the store managers with little or no understanding of the
blockchain can use the payment system as it implements an intuitive real-time payment process. C-BANK token is
used as a form of payment on Crypto Bank applications. Once a payment is made, the C-BANK deposited in the
Crypto Bank custody account is sold in real-time through the exchange's API linkage, and the affiliated store quickly
receives settlement in fiat within three business days.

2. User Benefits
Crypto Bank plans to support payment of various virtual assets, starting with the C-BANK token. Users who make
payment with virtual assets will be eligible for various rewards, such as promotional discounts with partnerships
with the affiliates. In particular, users can enjoy the following benefits when making payments with C-BANK tokens.
Crypto Bank shares a portion of its revenue generated from the platform with C-BANK holders. Revenues generate
from: payment fees, profits from registering various virtual assets as a form of payment, and acquisition of affiliate
stores and investment products. C-BANK holders enjoy discount on fee with making payment with C-BANK.
Depending on amount held, the holders can also be exempt from paying fees. They can also receive a certain
amount of payback based on their holding and usage amount. Details on these policies will be updated later.
Also, Crypto Bank users outside of Korea can enjoy the benefit of making payments without the high exchange fees
by using C-BANK. Likewise, Korean Crypto Bank users can make easy payments with C-BANK with overseas affiliates.
Crypto Bank is exerting efforts to attract global affiliates in China and Southeast Asian region through its global
partners and advisors (I5 Global Networks Co., Ltd).

12

Whi t e p ap e r

TOKEN ECONOMY

3. CRYPTO BANK FINANCE
Crypto Bank plans to launch its financial product services after stabilizing the platform by securing the number of
users.
First, Crypto Bank supports applications to virtual asset investment products through API interworking within
Crypto Bank application by entering partnerships with various exchanges and blockchain projects. Users can check
various investment products provided by numerous partners, while each exchange and blockchain project can
attract investors through the Crypto Bank app. Partners who wish to promote their investment products on the
Crypto Bank platform must hold a certain amount of C-BANK.
Second, Crypto Bank plans to launch a collateral loan service by selecting staking products operated by different
exchanges through partnerships. Users can borrow virtual assets up to 70% of the staked collateral value depending
on the amount of C-BANK held in Crypto Bank. The service users can also receive an interest rate discount when they
decide to repay interest with C-BANK.

15%
Ecosystem
Reserve
Team and Advisors
Strategic Partners
Marketing

5%

30%

10%

TOKEN DISTRIBUTION
Ecosystem

30% (3,000,000,000 C-BANK)

Reserve

40% (4,000,000,000 C-BANK)

Team and Advisors

10% (1,000,000,000 C-BANK)

Strategic Partners

5% (500,000,000 C-BANK)

Marketing

15% (1,500,000,000 C-BANK)

13

40%

Whi t e p ap e r

Team

Scott Seo

Je ry Kim

Manager of BCN

Head of Sales at Paradise Co., Ltd.

CEO

CTO

Head of Grand Korea Leisure Co., Ltd.

Team Leader of BSA (Blockchain

Manager of Grand Korea Leisure Co. Ltd.,

Startup Accelarating) lab

Incheon Airport

Marketing Manager of Hotbit Korea
B.A. in Economics, Korea University

JINI KIM

Jinuk Lee

CMO

Senior Engineer

Manager of Digital Marketing for CBANK

Director of Altplus Korea

Consultant for Gravity Digital Marketing for
Middle East Market

Programmer at Gameloft
Programmer at Golfzon

Investment Marketing Team Leader of Wadiz
Conducted digital marketing for eBay, VISA, KT,
Match Group and other global companies
B.A. in Fine Arts, Choongang University

Ilhoe Kim

Liam Kim

Senior Engineer

Marketing Manager

Consultant for Guro-gu Smart City Policy

Digital Marketing for CBANK

Director of Z-Storm

Customer Support at Tertiary

Director of XZO_Game

Hospital in Korea

14

ff

Reviewer at Health Insurance
Review & Assessment Service

Director of LKConvergence

Whi t e p ap e r

Advisers

Ren Yi 任毅

Berine 熊丹

China Guangcai International Group
Co.,Ltd Vice-President

Huobi Indonesia Exchange
Founding Partners

Guangcai International Investment

A graduate of Computer Engineering
School, Beijing University of

Group focuses on investment, asset

Aeronautics and Astronautics

management, convergence and

Head database Engineer of Beijing

new city construction, modern

Airport Terminal 3 Operation Center

ecological farming, mining energy,

Handled crucial database of cargo

and premium production.

system of Beijing Airport and other
international airports

Alexander Wan 尹锥兴

Shi Yanqiang

Huobi Indonesia Exchange
Founding Partners

BLOCK GLOBAL Founder & Chairman
M.A. in Law, Tsinghua University

Executive Director and CIO of Ping An

Founder of BLOCK GLOBAL

Securities Ltd.
Over 30 years of business experience in
asset management, investment bank,
advanced technology, natural resources,
and biotechnology in the U.S. and Asian
region. Served as Vice President of

President of Global Blockchain Alliance
11th Asia-America Multi-Technology
Association Cradle Plan
Deputy Director, Blockchain Expert
Committee of International Clean Energy
Forum

International Private Bank of Citibank,
Vice President and Head of Asia Business
Region 1 of Commercial Bank of BNP
Paribas

Allen Liu
BLOCK GLOBAL CEO / Coinin CEO
Liu co-founded BlockTech Media in March
2018, and has enjoyed rapid growth of the
business ever since. He expanded his
media business globally to establish
CoinIn in Korea, BlockTimes in Taiwan,
and Beecast in Southeast Asia. His
accumulated investment reaches over
10M RMB.

15

Professor at Fuli Business School

Whi t e p ap e r

Local Partners
Doobitnarae Soft
Doobitnarae Soft is the developer of technologies and products in line with the
4th Industrial Revolution and ntech. The company has developed various
product lines such as algorithmic trading technology and Tidic solution. Tidic
solution is a patent-pending QR-based information transmission and reception
technology service.

Tpayment
Tpayment is the payment device and mobility solution supplier for private and
corporate taxi operating in Korea. The company supplies card reading devices to
over 2,000 taxis in Gyeonggi-do, Incheon, and Gangwon-do. Tpayment is also
collaborating with a 40,000 taxi-call solution provider with a goal of securing
20,000 a liated stores in 2020.

DGBupay
DGBupay is establishing a settlement system that replaces cash transaction in
transportation sectors such as buses, urban railroads, taxis, and highway tolls.
The company also supports payment systems for parking lots, stationery stores,
and supermarkets. Since 2017, DGBupay has expanded into large convenience
stores GS25 and E-Mart 24.

XMD
XMD provides ASP-type web-based fashion ERP to franchise companies and soho
stores that handle miscellaneous goods. It o ers Play Shop for small businesses
and Play MD for franchise stores, as well as an online order collection service
Play Link. From early 2020, the company has merged its o ine fashion ERP
technology and online mall solution to link online store solution Shop Buy and
PlayShop with NHN.

Paycrux
Paycrux provides a service platform that links the on and o ine marketing
platforms with POS data to bene t all a liates, partner media, and users.

ffl

ffl

ff

ffi

fi

fi

ffi

16

Whi t e p ap e r

Local Partners
Daewon POS
Daewon POS focuses on coupon printer business along with electronic menu
board solutions, POS systems, credit & debit IC card terminal devices. It is
commissioned by Korea Financial Telecommunications and Clearings Institute
(KFTC) to manufacture and supply computer-related POS.

Chanyul
Chanyul provides the most optimal digital marketing solutions for clients'
businesses to succeed. The company provides integrated digital signage
solutions from display products based on di erentiated technology to
convenient software for optimal display marketing. In addition, it provides a
smart tap order solution and electronic menu board.

Delion
Delion has built an extensive expertise and know-how in delivery app market,
food delivery, and payment system. With this background, Delion aims to
establish a food delivery platform business that bene ts small businesses and
platform participants with automated delivery service.

Doi Chaang Co ee
Doi Chaang Co ee is a premium co ee shop franchise that serves the nest
co ee from beans produced at the Doi Chaang Co ee Farm in Thailand. Doi
Chaang Mongyudowon, located in Jongro-gu, Seoul, is currently registered as an
a liate vendor of Crypto Bank's real-time virtual asset payment.

fi

fi

ff

ff

ff

ff

ff

ff

ffi

17

Whi t e p ap e r

Global Partners

18

