WHITE PAPER

CRYPTOCEAN
ECOSYSTEM
PROCESSING
EXCHANGE
www.cryptocean.io

ENGLISH
60 PAGES

THIS DOCUMENT IS THE WHITE PAPER OF THE CRYPTOCEAN PROJECT. ITS
PURPOSE IS TO PRESENT CRYPTOCEAN PROJECT AND ITS CRON TOKEN TO
POTENTIAL TOKEN HOLDERS IN CONNECTION WITH THE OFFERED ICO - THE
INITIAL COIN OFFERING.

3 / 25.09.2018

ico.cryptocean.io
ico@cryptocean.io

CONTENTS
Contents............................................................. 2

Under the hood .................................................44

Summary ........................................................... 3

Architecture ......................................................... 44
Applications ......................................................... 45

Introduction ....................................................... 4

Subsystems .......................................................... 46

Problems ............................................................ 5

Technologies ........................................................ 47

Market Review .................................................. 8

Integration ............................................................ 47

Project review.................................................. 12

Warning............................................................48

Mission of the Project .......................................... 12

Market Research ..............................................49

Values of the Project ........................................... 12
Our Advanteges ................................................... 12
Why us? ............................................................... 13
What has already been done? .............................. 14

Services Description........................................ 15
Cryptocards ......................................................... 15
Payments ............................................................. 16
Transfers .............................................................. 18
Autopayments ...................................................... 19
Conversion........................................................... 20
Escrow accounts .................................................. 22
Crypto accounts ................................................... 23
P2P transfers ........................................................ 25

Tokenomics ..................................................... 27
Tokens emission .................................................. 27
The token purchase .............................................. 27
The advantages of token holding ......................... 27
Private Pre-ICO ................................................... 28
Public Pre-ICO .................................................... 28
Main ICO ............................................................. 30
Tokens destribution ............................................. 31
The Bounty-campaign ......................................... 31

Economics ....................................................... 33
Busines-model ..................................................... 33
Financing ............................................................. 34
Self-sustainability ................................................ 35

Project Participants.......................................... 36
Team .................................................................... 36
Advisers ............................................................... 38
Partners ................................................................ 41

Roadmap ......................................................... 42

2

SUMMARY
CRYPTOCEAN is ablockchain based ecosystem that combines financial and technological services for working with
crypto-currencies, digital financial assets and traditional fiat money. The core of the ecosystem is the processing
platform, developed by the CRYPTOCEAN, which provides:
Legality and compliance with KYC & AML procedures;
Entering fiat funds into the personal account of the ecosystem user;
The issue of plastic cards linked to the user account in the ecosystem;
Binding of a plastic card to a fiat, crypto or smart account;
Withdrawal of funds from the ecosystem to a bank account, or to a third-party plastic card;
Possibility to exchange Fiat, digital assets, crypto currency in any combination instantly;
Non-contact payments using mobile devices;
Payments and transfers using mobile, desktop and Internet apps;
Payments and transfers via instant messengers: Whatsapp, Viber, Telegram, Wechat, Kakao, etc.
The possibility of the instant conversion of crypto currency into Fiat and vice versa for the implementation
of B2B, B2C and B2G application services:
On-line shop transactions crypto currency transferring fiat funds to the current account;
The possibility of payment with crypto-currencies in restaurants, cafes, gas stations, trade outlets
around the world;
Crypto currency payments of state taxes, duties and fees, etc.;
The possibility of regular auto payments of bills;
The management of crypto-wallets, accounts and keys to them are in the hands of the client, which provides
additional security.
All of this processed in the integrated and well-protected blockchain based environment.
This ecosystem provides services developed by CRYPTOCEAN team, as well as services of our partners, we
cooperate according to the ‘win-win principle’.

3

INTRODUCTION
We are all witnesses to a very exciting moment in history. A whole new world of crypto currencies and block chain
has emerged out of nowhere. Only few heard of it 3 years ago, today the overall capitalisation of crypto currency and
ICO-projects is more than $2 trillion. Such rapid development has never happened before in any other industry.
Right in front of our eyes people create fortunes out of thin air and become dollar billionaires. Forbes (one of the most
respected magazines in the field of international finances) made a rating of crypto billionaires (08.02.2018) 1:
#

Billionaire

Wealth

Comment

1

Chris Larsen

$7,5 - $8 bln.

2

Joseph Lubin

$1 - $5 bln.

3

Changpeng Zhao

4

Brothers Winklevoss

5

Matthew Mellon

$0,9 - $1 bln.

54 years old, individual investor

6

Bryan Armstrong

$0,9 - $1 bln.

35 years old, CEO of Coinbase

7

Matthew Roszak

$0,9 - $1 bln.

45 years old, founder of Tally Capital and co-founder of Blog

8

Anthony Di Iorio

$0,75 - $1 bln.

co-founder of Ethereum, founder of Jaxx&Decentral

9

Brock Pierce

$0,7 - $1 bln.

37 years old, chairman of Bitcoin Foundatoin

10

Mike Novograts

$0,7 - $1 bln.

53 years old, investor, CEO of Galaxy Digital

11

Brandan Bloomer

$600-$700 mln.

31 years old, CEO of Block.one

12

Dan Larimer

$600-$700 mln.

35 years old, Technical Director of Block.one.

13

Valery Vavilov

$500-$700 mln.

38 years old, CEO of Bitfury.

14

Charles Hoskinson

$500-$600 mln.

30 years old, co-founder of Ethereum and IOHK .

15

Brad Garlinghouse

$400-$500 mln.

47 years old, CEO of Ripple

16

Barry Silbert

$400-$500 mln.

41 years old,, CEO of Digital Currency Group

17

VitalikButterin

$400-$500 mln.

24 years old, inventor and co-founder of Ethereum

18

Tim Draper

$350-$500 mln.

59 years old, founder of Draper Associates

19

Song Chi-Hung

$350-$500 mln.

38 years old, CEO of Dunamu, crypto exchange Upbit founder.

$1,1 - $2 bln.
$0,9 - $1,1 bln.

57 years old, co-founder Ripple
53 years old, Ethereum co-founder, ConsenSys founder
41 years old, CEO of Binance
36 years old, co-founders of Winklevoss Capital

As Forbes noted: As you can see, there are still vacant places on this list.
It is not surprising that millions of people around the world show the keenest interest in crypto-currencies, blockchain
projects and ICO. More and more people come to crypto market and invest their money in it, play on cryptoexchanges, engage in mining, actively invest in ICO.
1 - https://www.forbes.com/richest-in-cryptocurrency/#6db902e41d49

4

PROBLEMS
As in any new field, there are many problems behind the brilliance of opportunities in the crypto-world. Regardless
of whether you are just entering this world with several tokens or digital coins, or whether you are already in possession
of some significant crypto-assets (please accept our congratulations), you will face a number of problems.
Cryptocurrency purchase. The first thing you'll find out when you decide to purchase a cryptocurrency or a token is
that it's not an easy thing to do. If you have an account or a card in the bank, in most cases, you will have to spend a
fair amount of time to figure out how to do it.
It will be even more difficult to find a way to make a purchase on favorable terms – you need to consider the
commission to be paid for this service and the rate you will be offered to purchase crypto-coins at. Usual losses at this
stage range from 2-3% to 10%, and the deal completion can take up to one day.
Cryptocurrency sales. At the next step you will discover that making a reverse transaction to get cash in exchange for
your crypto-coins is even more difficult than making a purchase. The existing services, with rare exceptions, are not
easy to use, their rates are not that good, they are not capable of instant transactions.
As a result, you can easily lose up to 5-10% on a reverse operation. It is especially risky if the legal status of the
cryptocurrency is not settled in your country or banned. In such cases you can lose money or go to jail.
Risks of purchasing and selling. The purchase and the sale of cryptocurrencies is associated with certain risks. Virtual
exchange offices that perform these transactions, may be robbed by hackers or disappear with your money.
Unfortunately, such incidents happen.
Both the purchase and the sale of cryptocurrencies through exchanges is less risky and usually more profitable. But it
is important to keep in mind that exchanges are being hacked regularly, and the exchanges themselves may close along with the cryptocurrencies and money of users who had the misfortune to store coins on the exchange at the time
of the incident.
Stock trading. It is most profitable to exchange cryptocurrencies in exchanges. However, this requires certain
experience, as well as understanding of the functioning mechanisms.
According to stock exchange statistics, over 5% of participants (professional brokers and specialized companies) make
over 80% of the profits from speculating in the stock exchange. If you are not one of them, most likely, you will not
"make money", but someone will "make money" at your expense.
Trust in exchanging. If you decide to find another person and exchange cash with him for cryptocurrencies at a more
favorable rate than the exchange offices or exchanges offer, then you will inevitably have a trust problem. The
especially, if you found this "someone" on Internet.
There are services that do that. They are called P2P (peer-to-peer) exchangers. These services act as a third party in
transactions and take a small commission for the service. The problem is that con men are constantly trying to deceive
the middle men, often providing false payment orders or documents confirming the payment, hoping that the service
operator will make a mistake and credit funds to the con man’s account.
Legitimacy of the received money. No matter how honestly and legally you made money or "mined" your
cryptocurrency - by trading on the exchange, by mining, by selling goods or services, these revenues are beyond the
legal fold in most countries of the world.
In this context the problems of exchanging large sums become critical. Your funds can be blocked by the bank as a
result of KYC & AML procedures: there is a risk of receiving claims for not-paid taxes, there may be a need for
detailed explanation of the origin of the funds, for example, when buying a car or sofa.
Payments for goods and services. There are not many places in the world with a possibility of direct payments for
goods or services with сryptocurrencies. And the existing ones offer not the most favorable prices and rates. You may
be a lucky owner of one or two hundred bitcoins, which you bought "just in case" 6-7 years ago, which makes you a
dollar millionaire, you will still not be able to buy a cup of coffee somewhere, say, in India or in a resort village
somewhere on the island for your cryptocurrency.

5

This problem is especially sensitive for miners, who regularly have to pay fairly substantial electricity bills. It turns
out that on the one hand, the mining farm constantly earns seemingly decent money, but on the other hand, there is
also a regular problem with paying bills for its energy supply, because of the above mentioned problems and risks.

THE SOLUTION FROM CRYPTOCEAN
We offer a universal service for buying, selling, exchanging and integrating cryptocurrency into real life. You can
purchase cryptocurrencies with your bank card/account, get your fiat inside the service and legally transfer it to a
card or a bank account.
You can also order from us a classic plastic card (crypto card), issued together with our partner banks. It will enable
you to deposit and withdraw cash from your financial and crypto accounts in regular ATMs using CRYPTOCEAN
services, and also pay for purchases - goods and services – with cryptocurrency, as if you were paying with a usual
bank card. All the processes of exchanging cryptocurrencies on exchanges, transferring funds from exchanges to
your personal account, maintaining the limits you set, will be automatic.
You can also pay for goods and services without a crypto card either via our mobile application using a mobile
phone with an NFC chip or directly through an online store that has switched CRYPTOCEAN on as a payment
system.
The availability of auto payments in CRYPTOCEAN makes the payment of services even more convenient.
Integration with numerous systems accepting payments will allow you to set up the payment of bills (in fiat). For
example, you can automatically pay for electricity, television, Internet, mobile communications, rent, taxes and
many others. One of the ways to use this service is to make the mining farm pay its own bills. Isn’t it convenient?
Our commissions and rates are lower than most of the services on the market. We select partners with minimal
commissions and, first of all, initiate a transaction of exchange within the system and, if possible, satisfy it on the
basis of counter orders. In addition, our gateways are connected to the TOP-5 main cryptocurrency exchanges,
which will allow us to fulfill the exchange at the best current rate.
Most exchange services offer a commission of 2-3% (during periods of sharp changes in rates - 5% or more), with
a spread of 2-5% to the exchange, which ultimately forms a client commission of 3-5% or higher (up to 10-15 %).
We focus on the difference between our internal rate in relation to the weighted average exchange rate of 0.25% 1.75% and its further decline as the number of CRYPTOCEAN users increases and trading algorithms improve.
Another block of problems is associated with cryptocurrency wallets and access keys to these wallets.
Managing a number of wallets. The more active you dealings with cryptocurrencies are, the faster your "zoo" of
wallets expands. First you start your wallet for bitcoins or etherium, then wallets from stock exchanges are added to
it.
Then it turns out that in order to work with the new cryptocurrency, you need to install another wallet-app. As a result,
you find yourself with a bunch of services, applications, accounts, passwords and wallets, "sputtered" between your
computer, phone and, possibly, a hardware wallet.
And, lucky you, you have a large amount in cryptocurrency. It needs to be stored somewhere. And this place obviously
may not be the wallet of the stock exchange, the keys to which are kept by the owners of the exchange. As shown by
numerous cases of hacking - the keys to the stock wallets are often compromised. And that means you have to open
one more wallet.
Key storage and security. And then you will face another problem. Where and how to store the keys to all these
numerous wallets? The standard solution - in a file and / or on a flash drive - is very risky.
This file or USB flash drive can be accidentally erased, lost, stolen or made available to strangers. In addition, there
are more and more viruses and Trojans that "hunt" for keys to cryptocurrency wallets.
Key reset.But even if you do not consider the problems with key theft, there is a problem with their loss and reset.
Despite a lot of warnings, most users forget to backup keys or lose access to them.
It means that in case of damage or loss of the device where the keys are stored, the user loses access to the wallets and
funds. Most often in such cases, the funds are lost for good.

6

THE SOLUTION FROM CRYPTOCEAN
We made a special crypto account service - a multi-currency crypto wallet for TOP-100 cryptocurrencies. We
intend to provide the opportunity to work with the maximum possible number of cryptocurrencies.
What is fundamentally important is that the keys to the wallets can be stored only on the device (s) of the user, and
for additional security all operations are confirmed using multifactor authentication (fingerprints, SMS, etc.).
Too many applications and too little security. Once you are immersed in the world of cryptocurrency, you will find a
huge variety of different programmes and services. We have already mentioned exchanges and cryptocurrency wallets.
Some of them have a fairly limited functionality, but you can understand it only after you have started using them.
These applications are written by both professionals and beginners in the crypto industry. Despite the often open
source code, such applications may be quite vulnerable. They can easily be hacked.
In 2017, the number of officially recognized break-ins of exchanges and applications amounts to several dozens, the
total number of break-ins has long exceeded a few hundred, the damage from them is the loss of 2,000,000 BTC
(according to various estimates from $7 to 18 billion).
Here are some examples:


Mt. Gox. Hacked several times from June 2011 to 2014, until it was finally closed. The total amount of losses exceeded
1 350 000 BTC and only 200 000 BTC were to be returned;



BitFloor. Hacked in 2012 and 2013, and then it was closed. During the break-in 24,000 BTC were stolen;



Poloniex. The attack occurred on March 4, 2014. The exact amount is still unknown, but the accounts of all Exchange
users were cut by 12.3%;



Bitstamp. On January 4, 2015, hackers stole 19,000 BTC (at that time about $ 5,000,000);



Bitfinex. The attack occurred in August 2016. 120,000 BTC were stolen (about $ 72 million at that time);



LocalBitcoins. The most popular P2P bitcoin exchange was hacked in 2015;



Cryptsy. The Korean currency exchange was hacked and as a result closed in 2016. The damage amounted to 13,000
bitcoins and 300,000 light-coins, which was about 5.2 million dollars at that time;



Parity. The cryptocurrency wallet was twice hacked in 2017. 153 000 ethereums were stolen, at the time it equaled $
105 million. As a result of errors in the code of the wallet, there was some amount of ethereums frozen ($ 275 million
worth);



Bitcoin Gold. Through this cryptocurrency wallet, BTC, BTG, ETH and LTC a total of over $ 33 million was stolen.

These are just several examples of the most well-known hackings that have become known to the general public1.
1 - https://www.coindesk.com/hacks-scams-attacks-blockchains-biggest-2017-disasters/

THE SOLUTION FROM CRYPTOCEAN
We offer integration of several complementary services within a single platform – crypto cards, legal entry and
withdrawal of fiat funds, exchange, money transfers, integration with business, Escrow account, crypto account,
P2P transaction. This will solve the most of everyday tasks of users without the need for a "zoo" of applications.
The keys to access the main wallets will be kept with the client, so to access the operating wallets, a multi-signature
is used, which will at any time limit access to your funds.
A quality, secure, well-protected code is developed by the two independent teams of professionals which passes a
mandatory multi-level audit.
The list of services is not limited to the above. We position CRYPTOCEAN as an ecosystem, a platform to which
any services in the field of financial technologies and blockchain (exchanges, retailers, online shops, payment
services, banks) can be connected at any time, expanding their own opportunities and gaining access to a common
ocean of liquidity.

7

MARKET REVIEW
In order to assess whether CRYPTOCEAN will be in demand, its services are competitive, and ICO is doable and
prompt, we conducted a study of the markets of cryptocurrencies, payment systems, cryptocards, finteh-services and
ICO. The results of the study in full can be found in Appendix A. Here we present you a brief summary and the most
interesting and relevant findings.

PROSPECTS OF THE CRYPTOCURRENCY MARKET
The first thing that is worth paying attention to is the long-term prospects of the market for the next 5-10-20 years.
This will help us understand the viability of the CRYPTOCEAN concept.
The fundamental driver of the market growth is the overheating of the stock and currency markets. There is too much
money, the profitability of stocks and traditional assets is low. Investors are looking for ways to enter the markets that
will provide higher incomes.
The cryptocurrency market can become such a refuge for capitals for the next 10-15 years, which predetermines its
potential growth in this time interval (but having a long-term growth trend does not exclude regular falls and
adjustments).
#

Sum

Indicator

1

$630 tn.

The Global Derivatives Market

2

$199 tn.

The Global Debt

3

$80.9 tn.

The total volume of the money supply (cash and non-cash)

4

$70 tn.

The Global Stock Market

5

$26.6 tn.

Fast Money (annual turn over of cash and non-cash money)

6

$7.8 tn.

Global Gold Reserves

7

$7.6 tn.

Commercial real estate (apprx 30% of all real estate)

8

$5 tn.

The costs of all coins and bills

9

$0.35 tn.

The Cumulative Capitalisation of the TOP-100 cryptocurrencies (as of 23.03.2018)

by Forbes March 2017

As we can see, the total capitalization of TOP-100 leading cryptocurrencies today did not reach 1% of the stock market
(it was close to it at the end of 2017 when it approached $ 800 billion at its peak). Thus, the cryptocurrency market
has obvious growth prospects at least 20-25 times (up to 10-12% of the stock market). Until it reaches this number
the influence of the cryptocurrency market on the financial markets can be considered insignificant.
In the most likely conservative scenario this year, the cryptocurrency market will experience corrections after a
significant increase in the capitalization and sharp increase of rates for almost all existing cryptocurrencies at the end
of 2017. According to various estimates, the turnaround and further market recovery is expected from the 3-4 quarter
of 2018 to summer of 2019.
Nowadays, USA, the EU, China, Japan, Korea, Russia and other countries are making active steps in law-making on
the regulation of cryptocurrencies, its exchange, ITO and other aspects related to cryptocurrencyfintech services.
The peak of legislative activity is expected in the second half of 2018 - the first half of 2019. This creates additional
risks for the cryptocurrency market, which may result in reducing rates and increasing the volatility of the market
(exchange fluctuations).

8

Simultaneously, large players such as Venrock from Rockefeller Group or Morgan Creek are entering the market. A
typical strategy for such companies is entering the market at the bottom, with the goal of buying assets at minimal
prices, after that the market starts growing.
If we assume that a typical market cycle is about 20 years and start counting from 2018, the probable forecast will
look like it is shown in the graph below.
Cryptocurrency capitalization & annual turnover $, trln.
4,00

3,61
3,50

3,22

3,00

2,80
2,37

$ trln.

2,50

1,98

2,00

1,65
1,34

1,50

1,07
0,86

1,00

0,46
0,50 0,35 0,37 0,40

0,56

0,69

Cryptocurrency capitalization

Growth

2032

2031

2030

2029

2028

2027

2026

2025

2024

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

2018

0,00

Annual turnover

As the volume of the market increases, its volatility will decrease from the current level of about 10-15% to 5-7%
typical for mature stock markets in 5-10 years. The bottom limit of growth may be lower by 50%, but the upper limit
is higher by 200% or more (this will correspond to the 20 times increase over 15 years).
It should also be borne in mind that this forecast reflects the average annual value of the markets and does not take
into account the corrections and some external events that will definitely take place in the period under consideration.
For obvious reasons, it is impossible to foresee the exact dates of such events, and they should not in principle have a
significant impact in the long term.
Summary: In the next 10-15 years, the market of cryptocurrencies and associated payments, purchases and
payment of goods is expected to grow at least 10-20 times. This provides the necessary prerequisites for the creation
of ecosystems and financial platforms, such as CRYPTOCEAN, which will be in demand due to a multiple growth
in the volume of the market and the lack of integrating services.

PROSPECTS OF THE CRYPTOCARD MARKET
According to the Global Cards Report 2015, published by the Nilson Report at the end of 2015, the total number of
credit, debit and prepaid cards in circulation reached 10.25 billion. In 2015 227.08 billion transactions were made for
the purchase of goods or services using general-purpose bank cards issued under the brands like Visa, UnionPay,
MasterCard, JCB, Diners Club / Discover and American Express. The plastic cards turnover was $ 17.3 trillion.

9

According to the SWIFT international interbank exchange system, which covers more than 98% of banks in the world,
the total number of participants (banks, funds, investment companies) is estimated at almost 10,000. About 90% of
them are banks. 80% of banks work with individuals, which almost always means that they issue bank cards. Most
banks issue several types of debit and credit cards. According to various estimates, there are at least 18,000 types of
bank cards.
We have analysed the market and found about three dozen cryptocurrency cards and startups declaring their release.
And there were a dozen more mentions. So there are about 50 cryptocurrency cards in total. But no more than 5-7
cards are in active circulation/use. Based on the ratio of the number of cards and the volume of operations on these
cards to the total capitalization of currencies, which should be approximately the same for fiat and cryptocurrency, we
get the following situation:
Traditional currencies

Cryptocurrencies

Total capitalisation, $tn.

80,9

0,35

Capitalisation of cryptocurrencies, $tn.

Annual turnover, cards, $tn.

17,3

0,075

Annual turnover, cards, $tn.

Cards turnover, share %

21%

21%

Cards turnover, share %

The amount of cards types

18000

78

The amount of cards types

The actual figures are in the bold font; the forecast ones are the normal font. As you can see, the number of types of
cryptocurrency cards should be about 75 - 80, but only 40 have been declared, and only 5-7 projects have been actually
implemented.
But the most interesting thing is not the number of types and brands of cryptocurrency cards, but their turnover. Today
according to different estimates the figures vary from $ 500 million to $ 2 million. If we look at the ratio of turnover
to capitalization, the number should be about $ 75 billion (30 -100 times more). That describes the potential of the
market for plastic cryptocurrency cards in the best way.
Many cards declare that there is no commission fee or that the commission is 0.5%. But if you look closely at the
terms of cards issue and take into account the average turnover on the card (about $ 1000/month), average purchases
checks (about $ 80), fees for withdrawing cash from ATMs, card maintenance fees and other additions, you will see
that the actual level of commissions is 3-4%, without considering the exchange rate of cryptocurrency and fiat money
spread - up to 5-7%.
Summary: As this analysis shows, there is an opportunity for issuing CRYPTOCEAN cards and bringing
their turnover to the sums estimated in billions of dollars per year. The main risks for cryptocurrency cards are the
legal ones. The development of legal aspects in conjunction with the observance of KYC & AML procedures should
be given the special attention.
1 - https://nilsonreport.com/upload/pdf/The_Nilson_Report_Releases_the_Global_Cards_Report_2015_-_Business_Wire.pdf

10

PROSPECTS OF THE PAYMENT MARKET
The global market for electronic payments today exceeds $ 2.1 trillion. Its structure by region is shown in the graph
below. Most electronic payments are made in South-East Asia (China) and the countries of the Asia-Pacific region,
followed by the US and Europe. The distribution of the electronic payment market by country is shown in the graph
below.
As we can see, China is the leader in the volume of payments. The USA and the EU are in second place. Due to the
fact that the Chinese market is almost closed with a number of legislative prohibitions, it is impossible to consider it
as the main one. The focus should be directed at the US and EU electronic payments markets.
Rating of regions by E-Commerce volume

0

200

400

600

800

1000

1200

APR countries
North America
Europe
Latin America
Most of the electronic payment systems and payment gateways, that we examined, had a commission rate of 3-5% for
money transfer, about 1-3% for card transactions, 0-0.5% for internal transaction. In systems that provide the
opportunity to exchange fiat for cryptocurrency, the spread is about 3-5% compared to the stock exchange one.
E-commerce rating by countries

0

100

200

300

400

500

600

700

800

China
USA
Britain
Japan
France
Germany
South Korea
Canada
India
Russia

Summary: The volume of the electronic payment market will allow the CRYPTOCEAN project to take a solid
positions within a given niche (for example - regional or in separate countries). The key success factor is the
achievement of optimal commissions, which becomes possible when we work in exchanges with minimal spread
and when we select partners who will provide low commissions and / or optimal conditions. We need to focus on
the volume and the amount of transactions, earning less on one transaction but providing a dynamic increase in
their number.

11

PROJECT REVIEW
CRYPTOCEAN is a platform that combines financial and technological services for working with crypto-currencies,
digital financial assets and traditional fiat money, which operates in strict compliance with the KYC and AML
legislation. It includes the processing crypto platform created by the CRYPTOCEAN team with integrated own and
partners’ services into a single seamless ecosystem.

MISSION OF THE PROJECT
The mission of CRYPTOCEAN is to develop an ecosystem that combines fintech services on a legal basis to meet
the needs of people and business in high-quality financial services, capable of linking the world of cryptocurrency
with the world of traditional finances.
The CRYPTOCEAN processing platform will offer the following services:
Crypto cards (plastic payment cards tied to a crypto-wallet);
Payments (acceptance and processing of payments with cryptocurrencies for goods and services);
Transfers (between multicurrency and conventional crypto-wallets);
Auto payments (in accordance with the specified terms and / or request of the service provider);
Escrow accounts (accounts with confirmation of transactions by the certified party);
Conversion (exchange of cryptocurrencies and to fiat money);
Crypto accounts (a wallet for the majority of cryptocurrencies and fiat);
P2P transactions (exchange of assets via Escrow accounts and smart contracts).
In addition to these services, the following integration is envisaged: with cryptocurrency exchanges (for ensuring best
exchange cryptocurrencies rates and for combining liquidity banks), with banks (for card transactions, acquiring,
payments, transfers and Escrow transactions) and with payment systems.

VALUES OF THE PROJECT
The CRYPTOCEAN concept implies legal compliance and abidance of the law, partnerships with clients and financial
service companies. Any fintech start up or an established company may use CRYPTOCEAN's ecosystem for
increasing their profits.
The values of the CRYPTOCEAN project are:
Legality - compliance with laws and regulations in the field of KYC & AML;
Beneficial conditions of use;
Transparency and convenience for the client;
Safety and security;
Openness to partnership and new development ideas.

OUR ADVANTEGES
The main advantages of CRYPTOCEAN today are:
Profitable commissions of our services for conducting and processing payments;

12

Profitable rates and minimal spreads due to the effective schemes;
All necessary permits for working with cryptocurrencies have been received;
Agreements with banks on issuing cryptocurrency cards;
Cryptocards issued in compliance to the national legislature;
The ecosystem operates in compliance with the national financial regulator's rules;
All transactions are legal in compliance of KYC & AML;
Confirmation of the legality of the transaction (the fiat and the cryptocurrency);
Our project offers services which are in high demands by the market;
The high liquidity and stability are guaranteed by CRYPTOCEAN's own exchange;
The long-term prospects of the ecosystem's development is guaranteed by the partnership strategy;
Transparent business model that provides profit to investors.

WHY US?
As in any other branch of the economy, innovators are the first to go ahead, they take risks and, when they succeed,
they reap the benefits and open up new worlds. But innovators are not always interested in such things as quality of
service, reliability, convenience, and sometimes legality of what they do.
The innovators are followed by the professionals. Their task is to build effective, convenient, reliable, legal, profitable
services based on proven innovations. They construct a stable, legal and sustainable business that can provide them
with the work and generate profit streams for investors.
Our project has emerged as a result of a careful analysis of the market, trends and prospects for the development of
the cryptocurrency, of the personal experience of the project participants, of the experience of experts and advisers,
as well as a thorough analysis of the problems that people who deal with cryptocurrencies are faced with.
To implement this project, we have assembled a professional team of managers, financial, cryptocurrency and
blockchain-technologies experts, lawyers and experts in international law, technical experts and developers. In order
to carry out all the necessary preparation, we attracted the money of private investors within the framework of the
Private Pre-ICO.
Private investors believed in us and our team, and invested more than $797 320,85 at the first stage of the project.
This amount is more than 1.5 times the soft-cap ($ 500,000) of the Private Pre-ICO. They invested in our idea and our
team, and it is a very important fact for the expert evaluation of our project.

13

WHAT HAS ALREADY BEEN DONE?
As of 01.05.2018, we have done the following:
Private Pre-ICO has been held, which raised $797 320,85 (159% of SoftCap).
Two technological teams are involved in the project, working on the core and apps (more than 50
programmers);
Decentralized stock exchange has been developed, integrated with a number of exchanges within Bitshares,
which has already provided the gateways and the processing platform with the connection to the markets of
cryptocurrency liquidity (alpha.cryptocean.io);
The development of our own blockchain has been stated for the implementation of the core functions of
Cryptocean;
Partnership agreement has been signed. The development of software for a cold wallet on the basis of an
existing USB crypto computer in Flash-card format has been started;
The EU (Estonia) Company Bitchange OÜ has been registered;
Licenses to provide financial services have been obtained;
Licenses to exchange cryptocurrency for the fiat have been obtained;
Cryptocurrencies Accounts with EU banks have been opened;
Corporate accounts on the largest crypto-exchange exchanges have been opened;
Agreements with EU banks on issuing plastic cryptocurrency cards have been concluded;
Leading experts from the EU banking sector have been engaged for cooperation;
The implementation of the KYC & AML procedures of the EU has been thoroughly studied;
The Partnership Agreement with Silicon Valley on technological support has been obtained.

14

SERVICES DESCRIPTION
FOR USERS OF CRYPTOCEAN ECOSYSTEM

CRYPTOCARDS
The service provides for the release of cryptocurrency cards - bank cards with a full range of features, such as PayPass,
tied to multi-currency crypto-wallets. With the help of crypto cards, you can pay for goods and services, receive cash
in ATMs.
Schematically, the service is shown in the following picture.

15

The user's funds can be stored in one or several cryptocurrencies. When paying or withdrawing money from the
account, a choice of crypto currencies is made in accordance with the priorities indicated by the user and the the most
favorable exchange rate.
Crypto cards are issued jointly with partner banks, which provide accounts to service customers. Banks provide
legality of operations and execution of KYC & AML procedures, but they only work with fiat currencies.
As a result of integrating banking services into CRYPTOCEAN, it is possible to automatically exchange any
cryptocurrencies for fiat money in the user's multicurrency crypto wallet. Using the service while converting the
cryptocurrency makes the commission lower due to the choice of the best method of exchange. From the point of view
of the bank, the client only works with fiat money. All crypto-exchange transactions are handled on the side and under
the CRYPTOCEAN license.
Checking the balance and operations on the card as well as transfers and payments can be done using the service
interface - web, mobile and PC app. The bank carries out payments via Visa, MasterCard, UnionPay or similar
payment systems.
The service users are:
Individuals and companies using crypto cards issued by the service and the partner bank;
Partner banks issuing cards together with the service profit on commissions and on the remaining funds on
the card accounts;
Payment systems and banks that accept/conduct payments on issued cards (profit on commissions for
payment servicing).
The cases (usage options) are:
Payment with a card for goods and services from the partner bank account;
Payment with a card for goods and services with cryptocurrency from the service wallets;
Cash withdrawal through the ATM of the partner bank or from other banks’ ATMs;
Depositing cash through the ATM of the partner bank or from other banks’ ATMs;
View the balance/transactions on the card on the mobile service application.

PAYMENTS
The payment service allows you to pay for goods and services from a multi-currency crypto-wallet in the selected
cryptocurrency or a combination of them. Payment can be received by the seller in fiat (the national currency used in
the country of the seller) or cryptocurrency (if it is allowed as a legal payment).
The receipt of funds is possible directly to online shops, crypto-currency exchanges, payment and banking systems.
This allows you to buy both traditional goods and services, as well as сryptocurrencies, tokens and accept payments
for ICO/ITO tokens.
It’s possible to initiate the payment from the website of an online store, an exchange, a payment or a banking system,
integrated with the service. The payment confirmation can be done using a mobile application, a PC application, or
an Internet interface.
The payments are protected by two-factor identification, and also by storing keys to cryptocurrency wallets on the
client's side.

16

Schematically, the payment service for goods and services is shown in the graph below.

The service users are:
Individuals and organizations that pay for goods and services with cryptocurrency from multicurrency service
crypto-wallets;
Organizations integrated with the service which accept payments directly to the multicurrency service’s
crypto-wallets (expanding the client base);
Banks and payment systems that transfer payments to sellers of goods and services purchased by customers
through the service (earning on commission);
Cryptocurrency exchanges that accept payments for cryptocurrency via the service (increasing liquidity and
earning on commissions);
ICO projects, which will be able to accept payment for tokens through the service in any cryptocurrency or
fiat.
The cases (usage options) are:
Purchasing goods or services for fiat in the online store, to which the service is connected as a system for
accepting payments;
Purchasing of goods or services for cryptocurrency in the online store, to which the service is connected as a
system for accepting payments;
Payment of an invoice, issued for a product or service, to a bank or a payment system through the service by
the cryptocurrency (with automatic conversion) or by the fiat;
The purchase of cryptocurrency or codes on crypto-exchange exchanges paying in another cryptocurrency
or fiat through the service (for exchanges that are integrated with it);
The purchase of tokens (including ICO tokens projects) on crypto exchanges or in online stores integrated
with the service.

17

TRANSFERS
The service is intended for transactions with cryptocurrency and fiat money between CRYPTOCEAN multicurrency
crypto wallets within the system as well as external wallets. The main advantage of the service is its convenience. As
shown in the drawing below, the transfers can be performed using a mobile app, a browser or a desktop app.
The advantage of our service is that for the transfer of any fiat or cryptocurrency all you need to do is select a service
user from the address book (phone number, nickname or provided ID) and make the transfer immediately, without
entering additional details and wallet addresses, it’s as easy as sending a message in the messenger.
Schematically, the service is shown in the drawing below.

The keys to the wallets can be stored locally, they don't have to be given to the service. In the case of the centralized
storage, two-factor authentication is used with the confirmation of the transfer by an SMS message or a mobile app.

18

The users can make transfers of the cryptocurrency to the external crypto wallets, the fiat to the external accounts and
the payment systems accounts. Also, the service can accept transfers of cryptocurrencies and the fiat from external
services to the users' wallets.
Internal transfers of the cryptocurrency and the fiat (under simple conditions), are carried out without commissions.
External transfers may include a commission from both the service and the external payment systems. In the process
of the transfer, funds can be automatically converted from one cryptocurrency into another or into fiat money at the
internal (profitable) exchange rate.
Regardless of the way in which the transfer has been made from the wallet or to the wallet of the user of the service,
the user will receive an SMS, E-mail or a Push notification. The service automatically generates reports on transfers
of funds and sends it to the user’s E-mail.
From the client side, all financial services rendered within the service (MONEY TRANSFERS) will look like the
services of the one "seamless" crypto-bank CRYPTOCEAN, although in fact, many internal and third-party services
and companies will be involved in their execution.
The service users are:
Individuals and organizations registered with the service (the multi-currency crypto wallets are automatically
created during the registration);
Individuals and organizations carrying out cryptocurrency/fiat transfers to the users' wallets or receiving
transfers from the service users;
Payment systems and banks from which accounts or to which accounts transfers are made in the
cryptocurrency or the fiat (receiving a commission).
The Cases (usage option) are:
The Internal transfer of the cryptocurrency or the fiat between service users;
The Internal transfer of the cryptocurrency/the fiat between users with the conversion;
The Transfer of the cryptocurrency from the service user to the external crypto wallets;
The Transfer of the fiat / the cryptocurrency from the service user to the external account with conversion;
The acceptance of the cryptocurrency from the outside to the user's wallet;
The acceptance of the fiat into the account in the user's multicurrency wallet.

AUTOPAYMENTS
Automatic payments for services are performed by our service with the frequency and parameters customizable by
the user or upon request from the service provider. Thus, you can pay for utilities, the Internet, mobile
communications, electricity, taxes and much more; it implies the regularity of payments.
All of the above can be done with a cryptocurrency automatically, quickly, easily, conveniently, legally, at competitive
rates. For example, with the help of our service, you can automatically pay for electricity and even for the maintenance
of a mining farm and regularly receive income from it in the fiat – in any currency the user chooses.
For additional insurance and protection of their funds, you can specify the restrictions on the frequency of payments,
their amounts, the time of transactions. You can also set monthly limits for auto payments and many additional terms.
Regardless of the way the user of the service has been transferred from the wallet, he will receive the SMS, E-mail or
Push notification. The service will automatically generate a report on transfers of funds and send it to the user's Email.

19

The operation of the auto payment service is shown schematically in the drawing below.

The service users are:
Individuals and organizations registered on the service who are interested in liberating themselves from the
regular routine of paying bills;
Individuals and companies in favor of which regular payments are made (they receive their money on time
and in full);
Payment systems and banks involved in the chain of payment processing (and receiving commission from
it).
The cases (usage option) are:
The transfer of the cryptocurrency/the fiat to the user specified cryptowallet/bank account/payment system
on a regular basis;
The transfer of the cryptocurrency or the fiat to the user specified cryptowallet/bank account/payment system
according to the set schedule;
Automatic write-off the amounts of the cryptocurrency or the fiat at the request of the authorized service
provider with user restrictions by regularity, time and amounts.

CONVERSION
The conversion of any of the TOP-100 main cryptocurrencies is carried out for. The automatic trading on cryptoexchanges provides getting the most favorable exchange rate and minimal commission for its users. Conversion can
be carried out as a separate transaction - at the user's request, instantly while performing other transactions within the
CRYPTOCEAN platform, for example, in the process of paying for goods or services.

20

Schematically, the conversion of the cryptocurrency is shown in the drawing below:

The user can specify either a certain cryptocurrency or a wallet from which the funds for conversion will be withdrawn,
as well as the group of cryptocurrencies, priorities, limits and withdrawal strategy. For example, first – to use up one
cryptocurrency, then to switch to another, or to write off gradually in predetermined proportions).
When converting the fiat into cryptocurrencies and the cryptocurrency to the fiat, partner banks are involved. It is
from their accounts that the fiat funds are received and credited. Both sides act in compliance with KYC & AML
procedures occurs in accordance with the requirements of the legislation of those jurisdictions in which they operate.
Non-cash exchange of the fiat and the cryptocurrency may be carried out anywhere in the world with the access to the
Internet and the bank account. For cash exchange, you will need to contact the bank's branch office or use an ATM
and a crypto-card issued in partnership with CRYPTOCEAN.
The list of cryptocurrencies, exchange of which will be possible via CRYPTOCEAN, will constantly expand – to meet
the demands of customers of the service and the market.
The service users are:
Individuals and organizations registered on the service, performing one-offs or automatic conversion
operations;
Individuals and companies in favor of whom payments are made requiring the conversion of one
cryptocurrencies to others or from the cryptocurrency to the fiat;

21

Payment systems and banks involved in the chain of payment processing (receiving a commission).
The Cases (usage options):
A conversion operation at the request of the user (exchange of one cryptocurrency for another by the direct
instruction);
An automatic conversion operation of the cryptocurrency specified by the user during the transfer/payment
process;
An automatic conversion operation of several cryptocurrencies with the user-specified priorities during the
transfer / payment process.

ESCROW ACCOUNTS
Escrow accounts allow to make protected transactions between two or more parties with the independent confirmation
from the agent ensuring compliance with the terms of the transaction. CRYPTOCEAN acts simultaneously as an
intermediary agent that guarantees the fulfilment of the terms of the transaction, and as a payment system that provides
funds transfers. The service is provided together with partners - banks and payment systems.
Within the framework of the service, it is envisaged to carry out traditional bilateral transactions on the exchange of
the cryptocurrency or the exchange of the cryptocurrency for the non-cash fiat money. The service guarantees that
upon completion of the transaction, both parties will exchange funds, or receive their funds back, if one of the parties
fails to comply with the terms of the transaction.
The presence of partner banks in the chain makes it possible to conduct more complex transactions in which cash in
the fiat, bank cells, shares, precious metal bars and any other types of assets with which partner banks operate can be
involved.
For such transactions, the service provides a "Transaction Designer" that will allow to see and to agree on the terms
of the transaction, to monitor the process of their implementation by the parties, to generate a smart contract that
secures the implementation of the agreed terms.
Transactions are structured in such a way that first the fulfilment of obligations by the each party is checked (the
availability and access of the money on accounts, the cash deposits and other assets), then exchanged assets are
transferred to the escrow service (guarantor) and partner banks, and only upon receiving confirmation from that all
the terms of the transaction have been fulfilled, the final settlement and closing of the transaction are carried out.
This approach ensures that the terms of the transaction will either be met by all parties, or they will get their assets
back. The service and partner banks make profit on the commission for the performance of Escrow operations.
The Service users are:
Individuals and companies registered with the service, interested in the safe exchange of assets;
Individuals and companies not registered with the service, but participating in a two- or multi-sided Escrow
operation involving registered users;
Payment systems and banks involved in the Escrow transaction chain (and receiving commission).
The Cases (use cases) are:
Two-way exchange of the cryptocurrency/the non-cash fiat between registered users of the service (quickly,
easily, at a small commission);
The Multilateral exchange of the cryptocurrency/the non-cash fiat between registered users of the service
(quickly, easily, at a small commission);
Two-way exchange of the cryptocurrency/the non-cash fiat between the registered user of the service and the
external participant;
The Multilateral exchange of the cryptocurrency/the non-cash fiat between registered service users and
external participants;

22

Two-way operation of the exchange of the cryptocurrency and the cash fiat between the registered user of
the service and the external participant;
The Multilateral exchange of the cryptocurrency and the non-cash and cash foreign exchange assets between
registered service users and external participants;
The Multilateral exchange of the cryptocurrency and heterogeneous assets between registered service users
and external participants.
Schematically, the service is shown in the drawing below:

CRYPTO ACCOUNTS
Users’ crypto accounts are presented as a separate service that allows users to conveniently and easily manage a variety
of cryptocurrency wallets. In addition, if necessary, the service will protect the user from illegal tracking of wallet
addresses and transactions, introducing the concept of confidential proxy-wallets, according to which an attacker will
not be able to track the address of the sender of funds.

23

Schematically, the service of crypto accounts is shown in the drawing below.

Another useful option is the opportunity to analyze payments and transfers, as well as to group accounts and wallets
of counteragents. This will make it easy and convenient to find wallets and payment details for the next payment, view
the history of transactions by time and counteragent. In addition, the user will be able to view and analyze the statistics
of operations in different sections.
The keys to the wallets can be stored either by the user or by the service. To carry out automatic operations, upon the
request of the service the confirmation will be required. For the convenience of users, it is possible to separate wallets:
into those which keys are stored by the user, and those that are controlled by the service using a multi-signature.

24

The user can generate additional access keys to the wallet and add the option of managing them by the CRYPTOCEAN
service and at any time the user may recall them back. The service guarantees the removal of user keys from their
databases. However, in the latter case, the responsibility for storing the keys is entirely user’s.
The service offers a key deposit service, then the key is stored in a special secure database, without connecting to the
Internet, access to which is possible only within the framework of a multi-step key recovery procedure (this function
is not provided for transactions, it is only for the maximum security and safety of funds of the client/heirs).
With the help of the service, multifactor identification and confirmation of operations are configured - by entering the
code received via an SMS, a mobile application or biometrics (fingerprint). The level of identification can be tuned
for individual wallets or their groups depending on the established limits for the operations being conducted.
In the service it is possible to specify cryptocurrencies and wallets from which the funds will be debited in the
automatic conversion to the fiat, the priority of keeping the cryptocurrency, the conversion strategy (for example, at
first spend one, then another, or gradually write off from different ones).

P2P TRANSFERS
P2P transactions can be carried out using the "message board", where service users place their requests and offers
filtering them by geography, by the type of the crypto and fiat currency, by amounts, by users' ratings, by the date and
time of their registration, by the number and results of previously completed transactions.
Users can use the Escrow account service or conduct transactions themselves. It is Escrow transactions that add
noticeable advantages to our service in comparison with P2P-exchangers. Using ESCROW, you can be assured of the
honest transaction or the return of your funds.
Schematically, the service of P2P transactions is shown in the figure below:

The Service users are:
Individuals and companies registered on the service and interested in the safe exchange of any crypto and/or
fiat funds.
The Cases (usage options):
The placement of ads for the sale/purchase of the cryptocurrency or the fiat on the message board;
The Search and viewing of posted ads for the sale/purchase of the cryptocurrency or the fiat on the message
board;
Viewing information about the author of the ads, his rating, ads, the history of the conducted transactions
and users’ feedback about him;
Two-way exchange of the cryptocurrency/the non-cash fiat between registered users of the service (quickly,
easily, at a small commission);

25

Multilateral exchange of the cryptocurrency/the non-cash fiat between registered users of the service
(quickly, easily, at a small commission).

26

TOKENOMICS
Below there is information on the economics of the project's tokens, sales terms and the distribution of tokens at the
stage of the ITO implementation, the stages of the project, the distribution and benefits for the holders of the tokens,
and about the bounty program.

TOKENS EMISSION
The project carries out the CRON tokens issue as an ICO. Initial Coin Offering (ICO) – is a procedure of placing
tokens at crypto exchanges. CRON is a Utility-token. That means that its owners can trade it on crypto-exchanges at
the rates formed by the market and also pay for services and commissions of service.
The main characteristics for the emission of the CRON token are shown in the table:
#

CRON token parameter

1

The nominal price of the token/coin CRON on ICO *

2

Total number of emitted tokens

3

Nominal value of emitted tokens **

Value

0,01$
10 000 000 000
$100 000 000

The total amount that we plan to raise during the ICO (Soft cap) is $25 000 000. Fundraising is planned to be carried
out in three stages:
Private Pre ICO for investors who are ready to enter the project at the seed stage (this stage has been
completed);
Public Pre ICO for investors ready to invest at an early stage;
Main ICO for investors ready to invest at the stage when the first results are received.
The details of these stages will be discussed below. The tokens sold at all stages will be frozen by 10.12.2018 and not
available for sale on the exchange, in order to avoid sharp fluctuations of rates.
* - the nominal value of the token is the amount by which the token is sold to investors during ITO without taking into account possible discounts.
** - the nominal value of the issued tokens is the amount that could be received for all project tokens if they were sold at par.

THE TOKEN PURCHASE
You can buy CRON tokens in your personal account on the website of ICO CRYPTOCEAN: ico.cryptocean.io. In
addition, there are groups in Telegram, Wechat, KAKAO, their addresses you can find only at: ico.cryptocean.io
All official communications on the acquisition of the CRON tokens are carried out only via e-mail:
ico@cryptocean.ioand via your personal account on the website cryptocean.io.Use only the indicated addresses to
purchase genuine CRON tokens.

THE ADVANTAGES OF TOKEN HOLDING
CRON tokens give their holders the following advantages:
The token holders receive a discount when paying commissions for the CRYPTOCEAN services, depending
on the number of tokens and services, a discount can be up to 90% of the basic service rate;

27

The token holders can trade tokens on the crypto-exchange, selling their tokens with a profit, the size of
which will depend on the current stage of implementation and the degree of the development of the project.
To ensure the interests of project investors are addressed and to expedite the growth of the price of the CRON token,
the following measures are proposed:
The commission fees are charged in CRON tokens, which will ensure a constant growth of the tokens
demand;
The tokens can be used to finance margin trading in the exchange;
50% of tokens collected for internal services will be destroyed on a monthly basis*;
30% of the collected commissions will be sent to support and develop the project;
20% of commissions will be sent to maintain the exchange liquidity of the token.
* - the tokens will be burned by transferring coins to the address of a special smart contract guaranteeing the
impossibility of their recovery. This will allow to generate a deflation model of the token economics, a permanent
decrease in the number of tokens with an increase in the volume of services provided will ensure a proportionate
increase in their price.

PRIVATE PRE-ICO
SUCCEFULLY HELD – $797 320,85 COLLECTED (159% ОТ SOFTCAP)
The Private Pre-ICO was held for private investors ready to invest in the project at the seed stage (under the guarantees
of the project founders, inspired by the idea and the core of the project team).
The purpose of fundraising is to form a team capable of implementing the project, to finance the preparation stages
and to start work on the main elements of the project as well as to carry out all necessary measures to raise funds for
the implementation of the main part of the project.
Private Pre-ICO
#

Parameter

Value

1

Soft cap*

$500 000

2

Hard cap**

$1 000 000

3

Start

01.02.2018

4

Finish

28.02.2018

* the minimum amount below which the collection is considered invalid,
and the collected amount is returned to investors. If the number is higher,
the collection is considered valid and the funds collected are used for the
project implementation.
** the maximum amount at when the collection of funds automatically
stops, the collection is considered valid and the collected funds are sent
for the implementation of the project.

Private Pre-ICO was heldon schedule (01.02.2018 - 28.02.2018). $797 320,85 (159%ofSoftCap) was raised. The
discount on tokens for the investors at the Private Pre-ICO stage was from 50% to 80%.

PUBLIC PRE-ICO
IS HELD 15.05.2018 - 24.09.2018, SOFTCAP $5 000 000
The Public Pre-ICO is held for investors who are ready to invest in the project at an early stage, when the project team
is already formed, partners are involved, work has been started on the project implementation and funds are required
for its further development.
The purpose of raising funds is to finance the creation of the main CRYPTOCEAN services and the assembling a
partnership network, on the basis of which the CRYPTOCEAN ecosystem will be formed.

28

At the stage of the Public Pre-ICO 1 198 314 479 CRON tokens will be offered to achieve a total sum of $10,000,000
(hardcap):
Public Pre-ICO parameters
#

Parameter

Value

1

Light cap*

$2 500 000

2

Soft cap**

$5 000 000

3

Hard cap***

$10 000 000

4

Start

15.05.2018

5

Finish

24.09.2018

* the minimum amount below which the collection is considered invalid
and the collected amount is returned to investors. If the number is higher,
the collection is considered valid and the funds collected are used for the
project implementation.
**The required amount, all collected funds are used for the
implementation of the project, there are reserves, the liquidity is sustained
for keeping the balance at exchanges, bank accounts and paymet systems
in full volume.
** the maximum amount at which the collection of funds automatically
stops, the collection is considered valid and the collected funds are sent
for the development of the project.

Some part of the tokens will be sold at a discount. The discount size is indicated in the table below. The discount
depends on the amount of funds collected by the time the investor decides to purchase them..
from

to

discount

CRON tokens

$797 321

$3 000 000

30%

314 668 450

$3 000 000

$4 000 000

25%

133 333 333

$4 000 000

$6 000 000

22%

256 410 256

$6 000 000

$8 000 000

20%

250 000 000

$8 000 000

$10 000 000

18%

243 902 439

$9 202 679

23,20%

1 198 314 479

Total:

The estimates in the table are based on the amount collected during the Private Pre-ICO and reflect the maximum result in
case the maximum hardcap amount is collected. The actual result may differ and will be revealed following the results of the
Public Pre-ICO.

29

MAIN ICO
IS PLANNED FOR 25.09.2018 - 25.12.2018, SOFTCAP $25 000 000
The Main ICO is held for investors willing to invest in the project at the stage when the basic services have been
implemented, the partners have been engaged, the team has been put together, there are first tangible results, series of
elements of the project are fully functioning, the work on the project continues. Additional funds are required for
further development.
The purpose of the fundraising is to finance the development of the main services, the launch of secondary ones and
the development of the partnership network on the basis of which a full-fledged CRYPTOCEAN ecosystem will be
formed.
At the stage of the Main ICO 6 424 925 346 CRON tokens will be implemented, in order to achieve the total amount
of $70 000 000 (hardcap):
Main ICO parameters
#

Parameter

Value

1

Light cap*

$15 000 000

2

Soft cap**

$25 000 000

3

Hard cap***

$70 000 000

4

Start

25.09.2018

5

Finish

25.12.2018

*the minimum amount below which the collection is considered
invalid, and the collected amount is returned to investors. At the same
time reserves and the liquidity is sustained to maintain the balance in
exchanges, bank accounts payment systems not in full, but sufficient
for the startup, volume. If the number is higher, the collection is
considered valid and the funds collected are used for the project
implementation.
** the required amount, all collected funds are used for project
implementation, while reserves and liquidity for maintaining balances
in exchanges, bank accounts, and payment system accounts are formed
in full.

*** the maximum amount at which the collection of funds automatically stops, the collection is considered valid and the funds collected are
sent for the implementation of the project. There are reserves and enough liquidity to maintain balances in exchanges, bank accounts, on the
accounts of payment systems are formed in full, free funds are channeled to strengthen the marketing and expand the market presence and to
significantly increase the competitiveness of the project as a whole.

Some part of the tokens will be sold at a discount. The discount is shown in the table below. The discount
depends on the amount of funds collected by the time the investor decides to purchase them.
from

to

discount

CRON tokens

$10 000 000

$20 000 000

15%

1 176 470 588

$20 000 000

$30 000 000

10%

1 111 111 111

$30 000 000

$40 000 000

7%

1 075 268 817

$40 000 000

$50 000 000

4%

1 041 666 667

$50 000 000

$60 000 000

2%

1 020 408 163

$60 000 000

$70 000 000

0%

1 000 000 000

$60 000 000

6,61%

6 424 925 346

Total:

The estimates in the table are based on the maximum amount that can be collected during The Main ICO. These estimates
reflect the maximum result, in case the maximum hardcap amount is collected. The actual result may differ and will be revealed
following the results of the Main ICO.

30

TOKENS DESTRIBUTION
At the beginning of the Public Pre ICO, the planned distribution of tokens looks as follows:

Team & Advisors
14,78%

Private Pre ICO
3,99%
Public Pre ICO
11,98%

Main ICO Bounty
3,60%

Public Pre ICO
Bounty
1,40%

Main ICO
64,25%

The distribution takes into consideration the actual results of the Private Pre ICI, the maximum possible results of the Public Pre ICO and the Main
ICO, as well as the maximum costs of tokens for the bounty campaign. The actual distribution of tokens based on the results of the Public Pre ICO
and the Main ICO will change depending on how much funds are collected and the activities of the members of the bounty campaign.

THE BOUNTY-CAMPAIGN
The CRYPTOCEAN Bounty-campaign is an opportunity to get the project’s tokens without making direct
investments. The Bounty-campaign will distribute5% (500 mln.) of the total issued amount for the remuneration of
the campaign’s participants.
The Bounty-campaign for the ICO of the CRYPTOCEAN project is divided into two parts: the Bounty-campaign of
the Public Pre ICO and the Bounty-campaign of the Main ICO accordingly:
The Bounty –campaign of the Main ICO

The Bounty-campaign of the Public Pre ICO
#

Indicator

Value

#

Indicator

Value

1

Tokens issues

140 000 000

1

Tokens issues

360 000 000

2

Share in the Bounty

28%

2

Share in the Bounty

72%

3

Start

04.05.2018

3

Start

30.09.2018

4

Finish

24.09.2018

4

Finish

25.12.2018

5

Results

01.10.2018

5

Results

31.12.2018

If not all tokens will be distributed (due to the insufficient number of participants) these tokens will be given at the next stages
of the ICO. The Bounty-campaign may finish before the official date if the amount of the tokens allocated for the Bountycampaign reaches a maximum number.

The Bounty-campaign starts a week or two before the actual sale of tokens to investors start aiming at warming their
interests up and giving them the opportunity to make a conscious decision about investments into the project.

31

The Bounty-campaign finishes when the corresponding stage of the ICO finishes. After that for one week there is a
calculating results process, when participants get their tokens
This approach allows a more detailed and fair evaluation of each participant input of the campaign excluding potential
frauds.
The tokens are spread in the following way:
0,1% (10 mln.) of the total number of tokens go to the first 20 000 users, who register themselves on the
Personal Account of the Investor. The reward for the registration is 500 CRON tokens;
3,6% (360 mln.) of the total number of tokens will be given to the Bounty-campaign participants, who
promote the project by the bonus/referral programme (the reward is 5% of the purchased amount of tokens
by the person you have referred up to 25.10.2018, according to the nominal value of the token, which equals
$0,01);
0,1% (10 mln.)of the total number of tokens will be given to 10 000 participants of the Airdrop-campaign.
The reward for the fulfillment of AirDrop terms (registration and subscription at projects channels) is 1 000
CRON tokens;
1,2% (120 mln.) of the total number of tokens will be reserved for using in other Bounty-campaign activities
(social networks, Investors’ Support Service, theme forums, translations etc).
The Bounty-campaign participants may receive:
500 free tokens for the registration in the Personal Account (the first 20 000);
1 000 free tokens for the registration and subscription (AirDrop the first 10 000);
5% of the purchased amount of tokens by the person you have referred (by the link you indicated);
up to500 tokens/week on Instagram for subscriptions, reposts and project promotion;
up to600 tokens/week on Facebook for subscriptions, reposts and project promotion;
up to700 tokens/week on Twitter for subscriptions, reposts and project promotion;
up to4 000 tokens for writing notes and articles on the relevant portals;
up to10 000 tokens on Youtube for making a unique video about the project;
up to10 000 tokens/week for moderating project branches on BitcoinTalk;
up to30 000 tokens/week on BitcoinTalk for signatures and project promotion;
up to50 000 tokens for the translation of the branches and the project materials into different languages.
More details of the Bounty-campaign and the reward types are on the website cryptocean.io and in the special section
bounty.cryptocean.io.

32

ECONOMICS
INCOMES, COSTS AND SELF-SUSTAINABILITY
This section reflects the simplified CRYPTOCEAN economics, intended to demonstrate to the tokens buyers and to
the potential investors the financial model of the service at the same time not revealing any sensitive information. The
section shows why the project needs funds, how they will be used, how and how much CRYPTOCEAN plans to profit
and due to what factors it is planned to provide for the interests of the buyers of the CRON tokens.

BUSINES-MODEL
CRYPTOCEAN provides several sources of income generated by the main activity of the project. The main source
of income will be service commissions and the difference of exchange rates when exchanging the cryptocurrency in
the processes of transfers, payments and conversions. As for other incomes CRYPTOCEAN will receive them from
background services (Escrow, P2P) and a partnership programme. They will additionally provide up to 10 - 20% of
the project income.
An approximate estimate of ecosystem revenues for 2019 - 2023 years
Item

#
A

Service Users

1

Total amount of users

2

Annual increase in total

3

Active users

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

1 000 000

2 000 000

3 600 000

5 760 000

8 064 000

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

100 000

240 000

540 000

1 036 800

1 612 800

10%

12%

15%

18%

20%

4

Share of active users

B

User Turnover

1

Active user turnover per month (USD)

1 300

1 502

1 899

2 507

3 701

2

Active user turnover per month (BTC)

0,200

0,210

0,231

0,254

0,305

5%

10%

10%

20%

25%

3

Increase in turnover of Active users

C

Ecosystem Turnover

1

Ecosystem Turnover (USD)

130 000 000

360 360 000

1 025 674 650

2 599 469 833

5 968 382 736

2

Ecosystem Turnover (BTC)

20 000

50 400

124 740

263 451

491 775

D

Ecosystem Commissions

1

The transfer fee

2,00%

1,60%

1,28%

1,02%

1,00%

2

Payment fee

1,00%

0,80%

0,64%

0,51%

0,50%

2,00%

1,60%

1,28%

1,02%

1,00%

3

Ratings spread

E

Ecosystem revenue

1

Ecosystem revenue (USD)

2 166 667

4 804 800

10 940 530

22 182 143

49 736 523

2

Ecosystem revenue (BTC)

333

672

1 331

2 248

4 098

3

Accumulated income (USD)

2 166 667

6 971 467

17 911 996

40 094 139

89 830 662

4

Accumulated income (BTC)

333

1 005

2 336

4 584

8 682

F

Exchange rates

1

Average annual rate USD/BTC

6 500

7 150

8 223

9 867

12 136

2

Annual growth rate BTC

10%

15%

20%

23%

25%

Please note that the actual revenues of the service may differ from the forecasted ones.

The strategy of increasing the revenue of the service consists of 3 main steps:

33

The Phase of Rapid Growth is expected in the first 3 years (period from 2019 to 2021). The main goal is to
increase the total number of users of the service. This involves active marketing efforts to attract users.
The Deepening Phase. As of 2021 (completion of the rapid growth phase), for the next three years, the phase
of expansion of work with the existing client base is planned. The main goal is to increase the number of
active users of the service and their turnover. This will require a reduction in commissions and spreads by
means of the optimization of the exchange algorithms.
The Partnership Phase is expected to begin in 2023 as a logical result of the overall increase of number of
users and their deeper involvement. There are plans for more services with the accent on their flexibility,
which may be achieved by the active collaborations with partners. The aim is to position the ecosystem as a
milestone of the partnership network.
It is planned to meet the target indicators (the number of users and commissions) within 3-5 years.

FINANCING
The models presented below are only a forecast designed to estimate the income and the expenditure ranges. The real
financial indicators may differ from those planned. Nevertheless, such a model is necessary to estimate the economic
viability of the project.
The projected model of CRYPTOCEAN expenses for 2019-2023
#

Item

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

A Development expenses

$6 000 000

$1 900 000

$2 050 000

$1 960 000

$2 080 000

$2 000 000

1 Ecosystem Services Developing

$5 000 000

$1 000 000

$1 000 000

$1 000 000

$1 000 000

$1 000 000

2 Support and maintenance

$1 000 000

$900 000

$1 050 000

$960 000

$1 080 000

$1 000 000

20%

15%

15%

12%

12%

10%

B Marketing expenses

3 Support, share

$5 000 000

$4 600 000

$6 760 000

$8 372 800

$9 460 288

$8 670 661

1 Users attraction

$4 000 000

$3 600 000

$5 760 000

$7 372 800

$8 460 288

$7 670 661

2 Partnership programmes

$1 000 000

$1 000 000

$1 000 000

$1 000 000

$1 000 000

$1 000 000

C Other expenses

$500 000

$500 000

$500 000

$500 000

$500 000

$500 000

1 Legal

$200 000

$200 000

$200 000

$200 000

$200 000

$200 000

2 Administrative

$300 000

$300 000

$300 000

$300 000

$300 000

$300 000

$11 500 000

$7 000 000

$9 310 000

$10 832 800

$12 040 288

$11 170 661

Total

The main items of the project costs are development and marketing.
Development consists of the actual development of services (new functionality) and support and maintenance of
previously developed ones. The first one depends on the planned pace of the implementation of services. The second
one - from the accumulated technical debt and code optimization.
Marketing expenses should be directed at attracting new users, which is the main expenditure, and developing the
partnership programme. Both of these things provide the expansion of the CRYPTOCEAN ecosystem.
The main expense item is the users attraction, since it is users who are the main assets of the service. The most
important characteristic in the calculations is the cost of attracting one active customer, who will be bringing a constant
income to the project. The main marketing task will be to attract users and to optimize costs in order to attract active
users.
Forecast of CRYPTOCEAN marketing expenses for 2019-2023 years
#

Item

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

A Ecosystem Users
1 Total

500 000

1 000 000

2 000 000

3 600 000

5 760 000

8 064 000

2 Attracted users

500 000

500 000

1 000 000

1 600 000

2 160 000

2 304 000

100%

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

3 Annual increase in total

34

4 Active Users

50 000

100 000

240 000

540 000

1 036 800

1 612 800

10%

10%

12%

15%

18%

20%

1 Single user

$8,00

$7,20

$5,76

$4,61

$3,92

$3,33

2 Active user

$80,00

$72,00

$48,00

$30,72

$21,76

$16,65

10%

20%

20%

15%

15%

10%

5 Share of active users
B Cost of attraction

3 Optimization of attracting

SELF-SUSTAINABILITY
CRYPTOCEAN is planned to achieve self-sufficiency by 2021. It should be noted that at the low point (2020-2021)
the project "is in the red" by $ 21 million, provided that the forecast indicators are met.
The CRYPTOCEAN income forecast for 2018 – 2023
#

Item

1

Ecosystem revenue

2

Ecosystem expenses
P&L

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

$0

$2 166 667

$4 804 800

$10 940 530

$22 182 143

$49 736 523

$11 500 000

$7 000 000

$9 310 000

$10 832 800

$12 040 288

$11 170 661

-$11 500 000

-$4 833 333

-$4 505 200

$107 730

$10 141 855

$38 565 862

3

Accumulated income

$0

$2 166 667

$6 971 467

$17 911 996

$40 094 139

$89 830 662

4

Accumulated costs

$11 500 000

$18 500 000

$27 810 000

$38 642 800

$50 683 088

$61 853 749

Accumulated P&L

-$11 500 000

-$16 333 333

-$20 838 533

-$20 730 804

-$10 588 949

$27 976 913

However, the planned targets may be reduced by the number of clients involved or by the average payment in terms
by a single user due to the high volatility of the cryptocurrency market.
In addition, the possible negative factors may be: uncertain regulations, which may slow down the expansion of the
client base of the project, the need to change the geographic vector; the need to provide reserves in bank accounts,
other systems and external exchanges. To minimize all of the above effects, we intend to raise the planned amount
within the two stages of the ITO.
To ensure that the collected funds won’t just be deposited but will work in the interests of the buyers of tokens, we
plan to perform buyback transaction from the CRON token market, increasing both their cost and the income of
investors. Within the project, the decentralized exchange has already been launched, and some part of the accumulated
funds will be redirected there, providing liquidity and an additional income item, which will increase the stability of
the project as a whole.

35

PROJECT PARTICIPANTS
CRYPTOCEAN TEAM, ADVISERSAND PARTNERS

TEAM
PROFESSIONALS UNITED BY PROJECT IDEA

Yury Myshinsky
FOUNDER AND CEO
Experience of successful founding of companies and management in the field of information technologies,
the implementation of infrastructure projects for large state and international companies, a crypto enthusiast,
investor in fintech, startups and ICO.

Alexander Volkorezov
OPERATIONS DIRECTOR (COO)
Experience in B2B, B2G, project management of large financial and investment companies, implementation
of big projects and management of both state and private investments.
An active investor in cryptocurrencies and a knowledgeable expert of the crypto market.

Artem Shafranov
TECHNOLOGY DIRECTOR (CTO)
IT professional with years in product development, QA and support. For several years led a B2B practice of
process automation. Experienced manager and team leader.

Ilya Sorokin
BUSINESS PARTNER RELATIONS DIRECTOR
A serial investor. A co-owner and a founder of several IT companies. An expert in information technologies
and project management. A crypto-enthusiast.
A member of the united team of the Cryptocean collaboration, called ASIC.WORLDWIDE

Igor Romanov
CORE BLOCKCHAIN DEVELOPER
A core blockchain developer. Developed systems for aviation and financial sectors, including the
Blockchain-platform for p2p-lending Karma (karma.red).

36

Roman Dagayev
LEAD FRONTEND-DEVELOPER
A developer of user interfaces, also interested in prototyping and UX / UI development.
Was directly involved in the development of such projects as "School Olympus" uud.school, LogoCatalogo
(logocatalogo.com), Vinil-Pressing-Plants (vinyl-pressing-plants.com), also developedthe interface for the
Blockchain-platform Karma (karma.red).

Hu Jie
BLOCKCHAIN DEVELOPER
Experienced developer of Java, C ++ and Go, PHP Certified Developer. Knowledge of micro-service (MSA)
architectures, architectures of highly loaded applications and multithreaded programming. Worked in
Chinese IT companies. Participation in the development of Blockchain projects. A crypto enthusiast.

Lu Ting
SYSTEM AND BUSINESS ANALYST
Experience of participation in financial start-ups based on Blockchain technology. Deep understanding of
business processes in the banking sector, payment systems and gates, conversion operations, the operation
of cryptocurrency and stock exchanges

Andrey Ivanenko
COMMUNITY PROJECT EXPERT
The expert of the Seopult company in the field of Internet marketing, has worked "from scratch" with such
projects as Webartex, Cybermarketing, Alfa-content. Among his clients in the field of advertising and
consulting aredD well-known companies and brands: ArtoxMedia, UEFA, Tallink, Cryptojournal.ru, Saleer,
Chromeburner, Bookmaker company "Maxline", Belarusian Football Federation

Elena Mitrofanova
MARKETING DIRECTOR
Experienced in service promotion at international markets, participating in the promotion of four ICO
projects, which raised more than $ 70,000,000. Familiar with fintech, logistics and cryptocurrencyspheres.

Natalia Alekseeva
TALENT MANAGER
Experienced in talent acquisition for startups, IT companies and Blockchain projects including for
international consulting companies. Familiar with the technologies used in the development of Blockchain
projects, mining, mining equipment, various wallets, payment systems and cryptocurrency cards. A crypto
enthusiast.

37

Vladislav Tarasenkov
DIRECTOR & CLIPMAKER
Head of The Nova Promo studio, media planner and clip-maker of the "Silicon Valley" project, makes
quality videos for our project.

Elina Yaroslavskaya
DIGITAL STRATEGY DIRECTOR
15 years of marketing expertise. Experience in the largest agencies: BBDO, EMCG.
Main customers: MTC, Wimm Bill Dann (Pepsi CO), Red Bull, Media Markt, Sberbank, Wrigley, ABC
Taste
Festivals and awards: Cannes Lions / Silver

Fernando Muto Brevillieri
CREATIVE ART DIRECTOR
More than 10 years of work as creative art director. Fernando brought his expertise to the largest agencies
in Brazil and Canada, among them - Leo Burnett, BBDO, Publicis. He created advertising campaigns for
such clients as P&G, Visa, Snickers. Heineken, Philips, Walmart. Fernando is a multiple awardee of
international advertising festivals, including Cannes Lions, D & AD, Clio Awards, Webby Awards.

Svetlana Popova
15 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE WITH THE LARGEST ADVERTISERS
Experience in the largest Russian agencies: BBDO, Lowe Adventa, JWT Ark Thompson. Main clients: Visa,
Wrigley, Unilever, MTS, Azbuka Vkusa

ADVISERS
WE WORK WITH EXPERIENCED EXPERTS AND ADVISERS

Nikolai Shkilyov
TOP 10 IN PEOPLE OF BLOCKCHAIN
Co-founder of «Top ICO advisers». A crypto enthusiast and a mentor. More than 20 years experience in
large scale projects. Has a lot of rewards and titles in the IT, including «Self-Made Russia», «Super TOP»,
«The Entrepreneuer of the Year» in the Kremlin. A technological guru. Founder and CEO of a closed
business club. Owns many businesses in various spheres.

Igor Karavaev
BLOCKCHAIN ADVISER
A successful blockchain adviser. Previously CEO Skolkovo Foundation, one of the largest business
accelarator for start ups. Before that Business Development Direcotr for several large international
corporations.

38

Vladimir Nikitin
TOP-2 WORLDWIDE ICOBENCH CERTIFIED EXPERT
A world class professional and a legal adviser with more than 10 years experience in the legal sphere,
finances, retail and IT. A cryptocurrencies expert and an ICO adviser (Top-2 worldwide ICObench Certified
Expert). Active in supporting and defending blockchain technologies, providing consulting ICO services in
the CIS. Has more than 30 000 followers in the crypto communty, 6 projects worth $107 mln.

Phillip Nun
ICO & FINTECH ADVISER
Entrepreneur, CEO and international crypto currencies. Blockchain and fintech speaker. Founder of
Blackmore Group, which manages a large pool of assets in the UK and abroad. More than 15 years
experience in the finance sphere. Specialises in assets managements, angel investors, commercial property
investments and fintech.

Tarlan Kornilov
LAW PARTNER & ADVISER
Founder of the international legal company Elite Consulting (eliteconsult.org) specialising in hedged
capitals, international financial deals, venture capital and investments, cross-border investment deals. LLM
Degree from the Cambridge University and a Degree in Strategic Negotiations of the Yale School of
Management.

Vagiz Nurullov
FINANCIAL ANALYST AND CONSULTANT OF BLOCKCHAIN PROJECTS
Actively participated in preparing market research and developing the application of token in many projects,
including Storiqa, Gamblica, Bitrent, JoinChat, IQ300, Taklimakan Network.

Anatoly Bordyugov
ADVISER, ICOBENCH EXPERT
Actively engaged in packing and attracting investments in start-ups and ICO projects, preparation of
financial documents and IR. Participated in the preparation of a number of ICO, such as Storiqa, Gamblica,
JoinChat, NOAH, Bitrent, IQ300, ZentCoin and others, which raised in total more than $ 60 million.

Vahan Sarukhanov
SERIAL ENTREPRENEUR, CEO
CEO, the main compay flexlab.ru, more than 27 years of experience in the contract electronics production.
Owner of several companies in the Russian Federation and USA. Competencies lie in the management
systems, robot technologies, navigation, neural networks, robot eyesight. Blockchain researcher, the mentor
of the project.

39

Igor Gurkov
FINANCIAL EXPERT
A vast experience in the banking and financial sectors, including leading positions in Alfa-Bank and
CITIBANK. CEO of large IT companies, including Optima Group of companies. A leading IT expert. Serial
entrepreneur.

Alexey Poyarkov
SERIAL ENTREPRENEUR, INVESTOR, CRYPTO ENTHUSIAST
Experience of 20 years in the field of communications, project management, experience in implementing
major projects and attracting public and private investment.

Semyon Gleim
CEO & FOUNDER PAYMON
Entrepreneur. ICO Expert, ICO Adviser. An active member of the Russian Blockchain Association. An
active member of the Graphene Foundation.

40

PARTNERS
WE WORK WITH LEADERS AND PERSPECTIVE PROJECTS
silicon-valley.one

Silicon Valley (Russia)

Popular community of BlockChain and cryptocurrencies, uniting more than a dozen leading projects, some
of which have been succefully implemented, some –has successfully wrapped up ICO, some are in
preparation for ICO parallel to our processes

cryptoworkplace.io

CryptoWorkPlace
Team of experienced experts in the information security with the extensive experience in banking and
financial systems protection, and in protecting crypto wallets and keys to them. They are the developers of
the unique technology of the cryptocomputer in the pocket, providing a new level of protection for crypto
wallets.
paymon.org

Paymon
A multicurrency crypto wallet service with the opportunity of the profitable conversion of the cryptocurrency
and the fiat. Organically fits into the ecosystem of CRYPTOCEAN, naturally complementing and expanding
it. From CRYPTOCEAN the service receives an additional flow of liquidity and the opportunity to complete
transactions at the highest rate, our users is another channel to transfer the cryptocurrency and the fiat funds.
eliteconsult.org

Elite Consulting
Is an international legal company specialising in the hedge capital, international financial deals, venture
capital and investments, cross-border investment transactions. The founder of the company is
TarlanKornilov, he has a LLV Degree from the Cambridge University and a Strategic Negotiations Degree
from the Yale School of Management.

41

ROADMAP
WAY OF CRYPTOCEAN ECOSYSTEM CREATION
Milestone
Before
28.01.2018

Comment
Company registration in Estonia
Obtaining the necessary licenses
Consultations with TOP-4 international consulting companies (BIG 4)
Project launch
Publication of the initial WhitePaper
Launch of the site for the Private Pre ICO
Involvement of technology partners

28.02.2018

Completion of the Private Pre ICO (successfully, raised $ 797,320.85)
Start of services design and implementation
Launching preparations for the Public Pre ICO
Opening of the company's office in Estonia

23.03.2018

Development and coordination with the regulator of protocol on working with cryptocurrencies.
Agreements with banks on the accounts opening
Agreements with banks on cards issue
Study of the economics and bounty project
Consultations with BIG4 consulting companies on the project implementation mechanism

07.05.2018

Development of marketing materials for the project
Creating video for the project
Attraction of experts and advisers
Conclusion of partnership agreements
The Bounty Campaign launch/Public Pre ICO

15.05.2018

Translation of materials into TOP-3 languages
Development of the project’s community
Launch of the Public Pre ICO

15.06.2018

Agreements with payment systems
Agreements with partners on Escrow
Launch of the service of profitable exchange of the fiat and the cryptocurrencybitchange.online

25.06.2018

Launch of the alpha version of payments
Launch of the alpha version of transfers
Launch of the alpha version of crypto accounts

24.09.2018

Completion of the Public Pre ICO

27.07.2018

Launch of the alpha version of cryptocurrency cards

42

Launch of the alpha version of auto payments
Release of the beta version of crypto accounts
Connect the first 3 corporate clients to the project ecosystem

25.09.2018

Launching of Main ICO

01.09.2018

Release of the beta version of payments
Release of the beta version of transfers
Launch of the alpha version of the conversion
Launch of the alpha version of escrow accounts

25.09.2018

Launch of the alpha version of P2P transactions
Launch of the alpha version of analytics
Release of the beta version of cryptocurrency cards
Release of the beta version of auto payments

25.10.2018

Release of the beta version of escrow accounts
Release of the beta version of P2P transactions
Release of the beta version of analytics

30.11.2018

Release of the first version of the fully-operated ecosystem CRYPTOCEAN

10.12.2018

The issue of the CRON tokens into the free circulation at crypto exchanges

25.12.2018

Completion of the Main ICO

The team reserves the right to make changes to the roadmap, depending on the amount of raised funds and changes occurring in the market,
including, if it happens as a result of decisions of international and national regulatory bodies.

43

UNDER THE HOOD
CRYPTOCEAN ARCHITECTURE AND TECHNOLOGY

ARCHITECTURE
The general architecture of CRYPTOCEAN is shown in the drawing below.

44

The user interacts with CRYPTOCEAN via apps - Web apps, mobile apps for communicators and tablets for Android
and iOS, desktop apps for PC and Mac.
The server part (Backend) of CRYPTOCEAN is built on the basis of a hybrid micro-service architecture (MSA). This
architecture allows the system to be divided into small and simple programmes – the micro services. The micro
services are isolated in containers from one another and may interact exclusively by exchanging messages through the
system queue (a message bus) or special interfaces (APIs).
Apps interact with the system server via special gate (API), which technically represents another micro service and
isolates the system from intrusions from the outside and allows to connect different kinds of apps to the system in a
unified manner.
This architecture has a number of significant advantages in terms of security, scalability and performance. Failure or
hacking of a separate micro service will not disrupt the whole system’s operation, because the micro service is isolated
and can be replaced by another one.
The performance of such a system can be easily scaled as needed, by launching additional instances of micro services.
This allows to ensure the speed and operational comfort for users, and to protect against DDOS attacks.
Another advantage is that each micro service is relatively simple and implements strictly defined functions. This
allows to develop and to write more simple and reliable code simultaneously. In addition, each micro service uses its
own programming language and technology.
Interaction with external systems - banking, payment, crypto-exchanges - is carried out via special gates and APIs on
both sides: on the side of the systems CRYPTOCEAN interacts with, and also on the side of CRYPTOCEAN.
Interaction with the blockchain networks of cryptocurrencies is carried out via special adapters.
A special gate/ API of CRYPTOCEAN as a payment system, and a gate / API for widgets / receiving information,
through which you can get information about exchange rates and other data, were implemented for working with sites.
It is planned to provide widgets, which can easily be placed on the site to view information.

APPLICATIONS
For users working with CRYPTOCEAN the several types of apps with similar functionality - the Internet (Web),
desktop (PC and Mac), mobile (Android and iOS) will be created. The Internet application does not require installation
and is accessible to any user on the Internet via browsers for desktop PCs and laptops for Windows, Linux and MacOS
(PC and Mac), and mobile devices - communicators and tablets for Android and iOS.

PC (Windows & Linux)

Apple (Mac, Macbook)

For more convenient and secure operations of PC and Mac users, as well as for users of communicators and tablets
for Android and iOS, it is planned to implement desktop apps with additional cryptocurrency functions that allow
storing keys locally on the device in a form protected from theft. These apps can provide additional ways of
authentication and protection with fingerprints and biometrics.
Applications interact with CRYPTOCEAN through secure encryption data exchange protocols to protect user data
from being intercepted and hacked even when working in the open and unsecured networks (such as public Wi-Fi
networks), as well as through mobile communication channels.

45

Android (Communicators, Pads)

iOS (iPhone, iPad)

SUBSYSTEMS
The following main subsystems can be distinguished in CRYPTOCEAN:
Operations processing. The subsystem ensures the completion of the transfer and payment transactions both
within the service and in interaction with external systems;
Decentralized exchange (the service has already been launched). The subsystem provides for the possibility
of trading and connection to liquidity placed on a number of existing decentralized exchanges, which allows
to provide the clients with a number of additional advantages (higher transaction speed, security, legal input
and withdrawal of the fiat funds);
Conversion of cryptocurrency. The subsystem provides tracking of cryptocurrency rates on all cryptoexchanges to which the service is connected and their exchange at favorable rates;
Escrow operations. The subsystem provides for carrying out bilateral and multilateral Escrow operations both
inside the service and with external counterparties;
Auto payments. The subsystem ensures the execution of auto payments according to the terms and periodicity
set by the user or at the request of external systems;
Message board. The subsystem provides the placement, the search, filtering and viewing of ads and related
information about users of the service;
P2P transactions. The subsystem provides P2P transactions between users of the service, maintaining the
history of transactions and ratings based on it;
Wallet Manager. The subsystem manages users' accounts and wallets, their limits, settings and priorities;
Key Manager. The subsystem for storing and managing keys to cryptocurrency wallets;
Analytics and statistics. The subsystem formats the analytics and statistics on users’ operations, their wallets
and accounts;
Deposit of keys. The separate subsystem for depositing keys (saving them with additional protection);
External payments. The subsystem provides integration with external payment and banking systems and
providing them with the appropriate API;
Payment service. The subsystem provides the opportunity of payment system / service for online stores and
sites;
Information service. The subsystem provides information about rates and other public data services to
external sites and widgets.

46

The structure of the CRYPTOCEAN subsystems will be supplemented and expanded as the project develops. It should
be noted that subsystems are implemented using a variety of separate micro services, some of which are used in several
subsystems simultaneously.

TECHNOLOGIES
The usage of the micro-service architecture (MSA) gives the opportunity of using different technological stacks
needed for the tasks of a particular micro-service. The main technological stacks that we use include Java languages
(for the business logic), C ++ (for high-loaded channels), Go (for working with allocated environments), besides, we
are also planning to use such programming languages as PHP, Ruby-on -Rails and Javascript.
The user interface is formed using the HTML5 stack and the ReactJS framework. For mobile apps, Java (for Android)
and ObjectiveC (for iOS) are used. For desktop apps and integration with blockchain, C ++ and Java are used, for
Windows - C #. For the database, open source databases are used.
For testing and ensuring the reliability of the code, the unit and module tests are written, the automatic functional tests
and manual tests of the new functionality are performed. Configuration and deployment of the system is carried out
via the Ansible.
The micro services are deployed in containers located in a cloud under the control of the OpenStack and Kubernetes.
As a task tracker, the RedMine - the source code storage in GitLab- is used.
In future, the source code will be placed in GitHub. The complete Continuous Integration-Testing-Deployment chain
is configured for the immediate release.

INTEGRATION
CRYPTOCEAN will integrate with a large number of external systems:
Banking and payment systems for payments, transfers and escrow transactions;
Crypto-exchanges for the exchange of the cryptocurrency and the tokenized fiat;
Internet shops and sites as a payment system to pay for orders;
With other sites as a source of information and info-widgets;
SMS gate (s) and mail server for sending notifications to users.
Integration is provided with the help of existing API data systems. There will be developed specialized APIs and
widgets that can be placed directly on the sites for the integration of online stores and sites.
A full list of payment systems and banks with which integration will be implemented, will be formed during the
project implementation according to the results of the relevant negotiations. At the moment, the integration with the
following payment systems is planned: PayPal, Qiwi, Alipay, Visa, MasterCard, МИР.

47

WARNING
LEGAL ASPECTS OF PARTICIATING IN ICO
CERTAIN RISK FACTORS RELATED TO PURCHASING, SALE, AND USE OF TOKENS
IMPORTANT NOTE: THE TOKEN SALE COMPANIES DISCUSSED IN THIS WHITE PAPER ARE NOT
RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY DIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL LOSSES OR DAMAGES THAT MAY ARISE
DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY FROM:
(I)

RELIANCE ON ANY INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE WHITEPAPER AND ALL
ASSOCIATED MATERIALS, INCLUDING THIS DOCUMENT,

(II)

ANY OMISSION OR INACURACCY ERRORS THAT MAY BE PRESENT IN THE
INFORMATION RELAYED OR

(III)

ANY ACTION RESULTING FROM SUCH INFORMATION.

LEGAL DISCLAIMERS FOR U.S. CITIZENS AND RESIDENTS
The tokens offered in connection with the token sale under this White Paper are available for purchase to only
“Accredited Investors.” Generally, interested persons must have a net worth of over $1 million (exclusive of residence)
or an income in excess of $200,000 individually or $300,000 jointly with a spouse.
The tokens sold in connection with this token sale are secured under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities
Act”); these tokens have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act. The tokens are exempted from
the amended registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, and the process of selling the tokens does not
have to comply with specific disclosure requirements that apply to registration under the Securities Act.
Neither the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission nor any state regulator has gone through the merits of or given
its approval for the terms of the token sale, or the accuracy or completeness of any associated materials.
The tokens are subject to legal restrictions on transfer and resale and may not be offered or sold without registration
or exempted from the registration requirements. The purchasers should not assume that they will be able to resell their
tokens.
Buying tokens involves risks, and purchasers should be willing to face the risk of loss of their entire purchase. All
purchasers should determine whether or not they want to make a purchase based on their own independent evaluation
and analysis.

48

MARKET RESEARCH
APPENDIX A TO CRYPTOCEAN WHITE PAPER
This appendix reflects the research results of the market of cryptocurrencies, ICO, cryptocurrency cards, payment
systems and financial services. The research was carried out by the CRYPTOCEAN team on the basis of data provided
in open sources. This study does not pretend to be complete, accurate or academic. It was carried out by us to
understand at where we are, where we are going and whether it is realistic to implement what we are planning from
the market point of view. Some of the materials are presented in the Market Review section to avoid unnecessary
duplication.

THE ANALYSIS OF THE ELECTRONIC PAYMENTS
AND TRANSFERS MARKET
The analysis of the market of electronic payments and transfers is made in three sections - by the market geography,
by the competitors and from the users point of view. On the basis of the statistics data, the target audience was
identified, the statistics and analytical data collected were evenly divided for 3 years by periods (month, quarter, half
year, year).

THE TERRITORIAL ANALYSIS OF THE MARKET
The territorial analysis of the market of electronic payments and transfers (E-commerce) showed the relevance of
targeting the developed countries of the Asia-Pacific region (see table below), China, the United States, South Korea
and Japan.
#

Region

Volume of
E-Commerce
billion $

1

APR countries

1000

2

North America

640

3

Europe

500

4

Latin America

30

#

In addition, the countries of Europe (Great Britain, France and Germany) are
of high interest, due to the significant market volumes in this sector. Another
important area is Canada and India.

THE MARKET ANALYSIS OF COMPETITORS

Volume
billion $

Country

1

China

760

2

USA

600

3

Britain

175

4

Japan

115

5

France

75

6

Germany

65

7

South Korea

65

8

Canada

40

9

India

25

10

Russia

25

The analysis of competitors on the electronic payments and transfers market
is based on three types of activities (electronic payments, transfers and payments with cards) and is designed to
establish an adequate assessment of the possible tariffs of the developed services.
The commission for the transfer of funds from various payment systems is 0.5% to 4.9% with the possibility of
additional fees, depending on the direction of the transfer and its magnitude.

Payment system commissions
#
1

Payment system
AliPay

Commission
1-3%

49

2

PayPal

3.4-4.9%

3

Contact

0.5-3.5%

4

Western Union

1-10%

5

Unistream

0-1.5%

The payment gate commission depends on the payment method and on the contractual terms provided by their
partners. Some services can provide customers with the ability to conduct transactions without commissions, while
not providing a wide variety of payment methods.
The commissions of payment gateways
#

Payment gateway

Commission on Cards

Commission for e-money

0.2%

4-8%

0.5-3.9%

3-8%

1

Assist

2

PayOnline

3

ChronoPay

4

CyberPlat

0-3%

N/A

5

UniTeller

0.6-2.9%

2.5-6%

from 0.5%

The rating of the electronic payment systems is based on a survey of Internet users. The survey took into account such
factors as the country where the system is registered, the speed of funds transferring, and the amount of the internal
commission for transfers.
The rating of electronic payment systems
#

Payment system

Region / Country

Commission for transfer within the payment
system

1

Perfect Money

Panama

0.5%

2

QIWI

Russia

0.0%

3

LiqPay

Ukraine

0.0%

4

PayPal

Singapore

0.0%

5

Yandex Money

Russia

0.5%

6

WebMoney

United Kingdom

0.8%

7

Payza

England

0.0-2.5%

8

Neteller

Russia, Ukraine

0.0-9.0%

9

AdvCash

Belize

0.0-3.95%

10

Z-Payment

Belize

0.0%

The results of the rating show that users appreciate such factors as the variety of ways to enter funds into the account
of the payment system, as well as other advantages (interests on the balance, for example). At the same time, there
may be commissions for transfers within the payment system from 0% to 0.5%.
Summary: Taking into account the specifics of the service being developed, the commission for the funds
transfer can be approximated to the minimum (1-2%, with the growth of the client base and the turnover it can be
even lower), without any additional payments from the client. It is not reasonable to charge the commission for
internal transfers (this is a significant factor of choice). The focus should be on increasing the variety of ways to
enter funds and making payments, as well as the convenience and the speed of payments.

THE ANALYSIS OF THE CURRENT
CRYPTOCARDS MARKET
Based on the Nilson Report1:

50

In the year of 2015, cards issued for general purposes under the brands Visa, UnionPay, MasterCard, JCB, Diners Club /
Discover and American Express accounted for 227.08 billion transactions to purchase goods or services in various TSPs.
That is an increase of 16, 1 compared to 2014. This follows from the "Global Card Market in 2015" (Global Cards Report
2015) report, published by Nilson Report. The report took into account all transactions involving goods and services for
corporate and consumer credit, debit and prepaid cards.
55.52% of all transactions of this type were made on Visa cards (Visa Inc. and Visa Europe). The largest number of purchases,
as in previous years, was made on Visa debit cards - 35.50% of the total number of transactions of this type. They are
followed by Visa credit cards (20.02%), MasterCard (13.14%), MasterCard (13.13%), UnionPay credit cards (6.79%),
UnionPay debet cards (6.00 %) and American Express credit cards (3.21%).
JCB cards (1.23%) outstripped Diners Club/Discover (0.98%). Commenting on these figures, the owner of the Nilson Report
David Robertson (David Robertson) noted: "When consumers around the world open their wallets to get a payment card,
in more than 50% of cases it will be a Visa card."
As before, UnionPay demonstrates the largest percentage increase in the number of transactions in the purchase of goods
and services. Last year, the number of transactions made by UnionPay's debit and credit cards in TSP for the purpose of
purchasing goods and services increased by 47.0%. Compared to the previous year, the number of transactions increased
by 9.28 billion, which is higher than MasterCard (8.09 billion), but lower than Visa (13.16 billion).
Of the total number of transactions made to purchase goods and services, 54.63% were spent on debit and prepaid cards.
In 2014 this indicator was 54.05%. Of all the transactions of this type conducted on Visa cards, 63.95% were made on debit
cards (63.71% last year). For MasterCard, this indicator was 49.98% (47.86% last year), and for UnionPay - 46.90% (46.00%
last year).
The volume of purchases of goods and services, excluding amounts of cash issued on credit and debit cards, increased by
18.0% or $ 3.110 trillion in 2015. Judging by the volume of purchases the most popular payment instrument was the
UnionPay debit card, followed by Visa credit cards that bypassed the debit cards of the same brand. The fourth place is
with UnionPay credit cards. Then comes the credit cards MasterCard, debit cards MasterCard and credit cards American
Express.
At the end of 2015, the total number of credit, debit and prepaid cards in circulation reached 10.25 billion, which is 8.2%
more than in 2014. The share of cards in circulation broken down by brand is as follows: UnionPay -53.07% (52.09% last
year), Visa -28.95%, (30.23%), MasterCard -15.35% (14 , 96%), American Express - 1.15% (1.18%), JCB -0.91%, (0.93%) and
Diners Club / Discover -0.56% (0.60%).
Of the total number of cards in circulation, 75.94% were debited (74.61% a year earlier). The number of cards of this type
in circulation increased by 716.3 million. The number of credit cards in circulation increased by 61.4 million.
1 - https://nilsonreport.com/upload/pdf/The_Nilson_Report_Releases_the_Global_Cards_Report_2015_-_Business_Wire.pdf

We have conducted a market analysis and discovered about three dozenscryptocurrency cards and startups declaring
their release. And there were mentions of a dozen more. The most interesting cryptocurrency cards are shown in the
table below2:
#

Card

Comment

1

Wirex

The international debit card, delivered worldwide. The card appeared on the market in 2015. Until 2016, it was an
E-Coin. The leader of the crypto-cards market. Works through Visa and Mastercard around the world. Supports
EUR, USD and GBP, TOP10 crypt.

2

CoinsBank

These Debit cards give users access to their funds on the accounts of CoinsBank. The Cards can be used to withdraw
money from almost any ATM throughout the world. Supports EUR, USD, GBP, RUB. Works with Bitcoin and
Litecoin.

3

CryptoPay

A VISA debit card, it can be used everywhere where VISA is accepted, and also for the ATM money withdrawals.
Supports EUR, USD, GBP, RUB. Works with Bitcoin.

4

Xapo

This veteran in Europe is issued in 2013. The Xapo card supports EUR, GBP, USD. Works with Bitcoin. To date,
the work of the map is limited to the EU.

5

Shift

Works in cooperation with such popular companies as Coinbase, Dwolla and Visa and positions itself in the market
as the first American debit card. The card can contain on the balance BTC, LTC, BCH and ETH. Payment system
Visa. Really works in the US and not in all states.

6

BitPay

One of the youngest debit cards based on the Visa payment system, the most popular bitcoin-card in America.
Supports USD and works with bitcoins.

51

7

Bitwala

The debit card Bitwalais mostly designed for users of the euro area. Supports EUR and works with bitcoins.

8

SpectroCoin

Universal solution for bitcoin, offering a bitcoin-wallet, an exchanger, debit cards and transfers. Debit cards are
accepted wherever Visa or MasterCard are accepted. Supports EUR, USD, GBP. Works with bitcoins, there is an
option for adding additional altcoinsMonero, Ethereum, Zcash, Dash and others.

9

ADVCASH

A relatively young project, but surely gaining popularity. Works through Master Card. Supports EUR, USD, GBP.
Works with Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash.

10

ePayments

The card was developed by the British company Electronic Payments Association. Works through Master Card.
Supports EUR, USD, GBP. Operates with Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum.

11

TenX

TenX plans to release a card in a broad circulation in autumn, working through Visa. The project works with
bitcoins, lightcoins, ether.

Many cards declare the no fee commission or the commission of 0.5%. But if you look closely at the terms of cards
issue and take into account the average turnover on the card (about $ 1000 per month), average checks (about $ 80),
fees for withdrawing cash from ATMs, card maintenance fees and other, it turns out that the actual level of
commissions is 3-4%, taking into account the exchange spread it is up to 5-7%.
It should be noted that about ten projects were closed at different times because of disagreements with regulatory
bodies. A number of projects have limited release of cryptocurrency cards in certain regions. Thus, the main risks are
legislative and legal. To this, we can add that cards oriented to specific regions and the specifics of their legislation
have less risks than the universal ones.
Summary: As the crypto-card market analysis shows, there is an opportunity for issuing CRYPTOCEAN
cards and for bringing their turnover to the sums estimated in billions of dollars per year. However, this process
requires a very careful legal study. The main risks for cryptocurrency cards are the legal ones. A number of projects
were closed by the decision of the regulatory bodies. There is a way to issue separate cards for different regions,
taking into account the specifics of national legislations.
2–The quantitative analysis of cryptocards indicators can be seen in the section Market Review.

THE ANALYSIS OF THE CURRENT
CRYPTO-CURRENCIES MARKET
The purpose of analyzing the current market of cryptocurrencies is to understand the possibility of implementing the
CRYPTOCEAN services and to fulfil the declared promises from the standpoint of the current realities of the market.
After the crypto-market continued growth throughout 2017, major cryptocurrencies and assets underwent a serious
correction in January and early February. Most popular coins and tokens fell in price to the level observed in early
December. Many experts predicted this correction, since it happens after every wave of the market growth. The change
in the bitcoin price is usually a warning for market participants. After the sharp price hikes, there were often falls on
average by 30-50%, which entailed a correction of the price of all other altcoins.
In February, the capitalization of the whole of the cryptocurrency market declined by another 15%, from $ 517 billion
to $ 440 billion by the end of the February 28. In March, the market again followed a negative trend, as a result, by
the end of the first quarter of 2018, market capitalization declined to $ 260 billion, in other words - to the price level
of late November 2017.
The table below shows the dynamics of the 12 cryptocurrency exchange rates in the 1st quarter of 2018. The presented
list of coins and tokens is compiled on the basis of the list of top 10 crypto assets by capitalization at the beginning of
the year (in blue) and on 01.04.2018. Fluctuations in the top-12 in terms of capitalization over the past quarter were
more than 100% (High / Low). Especially significant fluctuations were observed in NEM and Cardano, their max and
min rates for the quarter differed more than 10 times and ranged from $ 2.09 to $ 0.20 and from $ 1.33 to $ 0.13
respectively. Also, significant fluctuations were observed in Ripple and Stellar.
Price Open, $

Crypto

QoQ

#
Currency
1

Bitcoin

01.01.2018
14 112,20

01.02.2018
10 237,30

01.03.2018

01.04.2018

10 385,00

7 003,06

52

%
-50,4%

High, $
17 712,40

Low, $
6048,26

Δ, $
11 664,14

High/L
ow
2,93

2

Ripple

2,30

1,16

0,90

0,51

-77,7%

3,84

0,47

3,37

8,24

3

Ethereum

755,76

1 119,37

856,01

397,25

-47,4%

1 432,88

363,81

1 069,07

3,94

4

Bitcoin Cash

2 534,82

1 491,12

1 204,84

688,01

-72,9%

3 071,16

629,93

2 441,23

4,88

5

Cardano

0,72

0,52

0,31

0,16

-78,2%

1,33

0,13

1,20

10,47

6

Litecoin

231,67

163,68

203,12

116,91

-49,5%

323,12

105,35

217,77

3,07

7

IOTA

3,56

2,31

1,85

1,08

-69,7%

4,58

0,96

3,62

4,79

8

NEM

1,04

0,79

0,40

0,22

-78,7%

2,09

0,20

1,89

10,55

9

Dash

1 054,07

698,79

584,14

306,21

-70,9%

1 394,28

285,68

1 108,60

4,88

10

Stellar

0,36

0,54

0,33

0,21

-42,4%

0,94

0,16

0,78

5,90

11

NEO

76,19

145,96

133,65

50,34

-33,9%

196,85

45,30

151,55

4,35

12

EOC

8,77

12,24

8,39

6,00

-31,6%

18,71

3,95

14,76

4,74

For all 12

-58,6%

Data source: coinmarketcap.com

To analyze the activity of the trading on crypto-exchanges, the index ZAK-n Crypto is calculated1. Trading volumes
for 24 hours (Volume 24h) for four and eight dominant cryptocurrencies for the first quarter decreased by 2 times (see
table above), which indicates a decrease in activity in crypto-exchanges.
In January-March, the trading volume (Volume 24h) of the four major cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin
Cash, Ripple) ranged from $6 to $25 billion per day. The daily values of the ZAK-4 Crypto index averaged 3-4% of
the size of the capitalization, but at times exceeded 10%.
For example, on February 6, 2018, during a period of significant correction of crypto-market, the value of the index
increased up to 10.3%, and it also grew on March 18, on the eve of the G20 summit. This indicates a very high liquidity
and dynamism of the dominant market of cryptocurrencies. As of April 1, 2013, the trading volumes of the four
dominant cryptocurrencies amounted to $ 6.4 billion per day, that is 3.4% of their market capitalization.
Crypto

Date
(2018)

Bitcoin(BTC)

Ethereum(ETH)

Bitcoin Cash(BCH)

Ripple(XRP)

4 Crypto

Price
open

Volume
(24h)

Market
cap

Price
open

Volume
(24h)

Market
cap

Price
open

Volume
(24h)

Market
cap

Price
open

Volume
(24h)

Market
cap

Volume
(24h) 4
crypto

$

USD
billion

USD
billion

$

USD
billion

USD
billion

$

USD
billion

USD
billion

$

USD
billion

USD
billion

USD billion

Market cap 4
ZAK-4
crypto
crypto index
USD billion

%

Apr 01

7 003

4,5

118,7

397

1,3

39,1

688

0,3

11,7

0,51

0,3

20,1

6,4

189,7

3,4%

Mar 25

8 613

4,6

145,9

523

1,2

51,4

974

0,2

16,6

0,64

0,2

25,0

6,2

238,9

2,6%

Mar 18

7 891

6,6

133,5

552

2,7

54,2

948

0,4

16,1

0,63

0,9

24,8

10,7

228,7

4,7%

Mar 11

8 853

6,3

149,7

685

1,6

67,2

1 003

0,5

17,1

0,80

0,5

31,1

8,8

265,1

3,3%

Mar 04

11 497

6,1

194,3

856

1,7

83,9

1 268

0,4

21,6

0,91

0,8

35,4

8,9

335,1

2,7%

Mar 01

10 385

7,3

175,4

856

1,9

83,8

1 205

0,5

20,5

0,90

0,5

35,3

10,1

315,1

3,2%

Feb 25

9796

5,7

165,4

839

1,6

82,1

1 191

0,4

20,2

0,95

0,4

37,2

8,1

305,0

2,6%

Feb 18

11 123

8,7

187,7

973

2,6

95,1

1 552

0,9

26,3

1,20

1,1

47,0

13,3

356,1

3,7%

Feb 11

8 616

6,1

145,2

859

2,5

83,8

1 256

0,7

21,3

1,07

2,6

41,6

11,8

292,0

4,0%

Feb 04

9 176

7,1

154,6

965

3,0

94,0

1 273

0,7

21,6

0,91

1,2

35,6

11,9

305,7

3,9%

Feb 01

10 237

10,0

172,4

1 119

5,3

109,0

1 491

0,7

25,3

1,16

1,4

45,0

17,3

351,6

4,9%

Jan 28

11 475

8,4

193,1

1 112

5,4

108,1

1 636

0,6

27,7

1,22

1,3

47,4

15,6

376,4

4,2%

Jan 21

12 889

9,9

216,7

1 156

3,4

112,2

2 034

0,7

34,4

1,58

2,8

61,1

16,9

424,4

4,0%

Jan 14

14 371

11,1

241,4

1 397

4,8

135,5

2 687

1,0

45,4

2,02

2,0

78,2

18,9

500.6

3,8%

53

Jan 07

17 527

15,9

294,2

1 043

5,6

101,0

2 785

1,4

47,1

3,09

2,4

119,8

25,3

562,1

4,5%

Jan 01

14 112

10,3

236,7

756

2,6

73,1

2 535

0,9

42,8

2,30

1,9

88,9

15,7

441,6

3,6%

As of April 1, 2018, 00:00 UTC, Data source: coinmarketcap.com

Summary:the crypto currency market is going through the corrections phase having reached its peak rates at
the end of 2017. The market did not collapse despite many prediction, which is a very good news. It proves that
the market has matured. It also increases the probability of its stabilising and development in the lon-term prospects.
On the other hand the cryptocurrencyes market is a highly volatile one (in some cases more than 10-15% rate
fluctuations a day). It means that in order to get minimal commissions of the service it is important to think
exchange strategies and robots through and adapt them to the current situation.
The best solution in such situations is for CRYPTOCEAN ecosystem to have its own crypto exchange which will
serve as a stabiliser at the time of drastic cryptocurrencies exchange rates (in a highly volatile situation)
1 - https://anycoin.news/2018/04/04/crypto-quater/

LONG-TERM PROSPECTS OF THE
CRYPTOCURRENCY MARKET
The purpose of analyzing the long-term prospects of the cryptocurrency market is to understand the long-term
prospects of the CRYPTOCEAN services and the feasibility of implementing the project as such.
The analysis was conducted using open sources by three methods: by the technical analysis, by the analogy with
exchange markets, and also by summarizing the opinions of various industry experts and government officials from
the US, EU, China, Japan, Korea and Russia.
As a result of the analysis, four main scenarios for the development of the cryptocurrency market in the long run were
identified, which can be viewed as optimistic, catastrophic, pessimistic and conservative.

CATASTROPHIC SCENARIO
There are two options in this scenario. The soft option is: the existing cryptocurrencies are replaced by some new
ones. The hard option is: a complete ban and the disappearance of the cryptocurrency. Both options are considered for
the next 2-3 years, that is until 2020. We take into consideration the probability of such a scenario as extremely low
(at a level below 5%) for the following reasons:
1.

This scenario is popular mainly among government officials from countries that are trying to ban or limit
cryptocurrencies, as well as with the experts with very conservative views.

2.

The key countries represented in the cryptocurrency market are the USA, the EU, Japan, China, South Korea,
India, and Russia in general prefer the way of market regulation, and not prohibitions. Such a position would
not make sense if they wanted to liquidate cryptocurrencies.

3.

Most of the imposed prohibitions are applied to ICO and cashing out cryptocurrency, since there is a threat
of frauds for the first one, and there is a threat of the illegal money laundering with the second one, both has
led to some prohibitions. Some of the bans introduced earlier, for example, in Korea, have already been lifted.

4.

The market of the cryptocurrency includes large financial players, such as Venrock from the Rockefeller
group of companies1 or Morgan Creek2. These players cannot be suspected of the lack of information, experts,
lobby resources or the desire to lose money.

5.

In 5 years of active use there was not been discovered a fatal vulnerability of the BlockChain technology on
which cryptocurrencies are based, all the problems identified were resolved in one way or another.

So, this scenario is possible, but extremely unlikely.
1 - http://thebitplex.com/2018/04/07/rockefeller-crypto/
2- https://www.ccn.com/bitcoin-bull-mark-yusko-raising-capital-for-500-million-cryptoasset-hedge-fund/

OPTIMISTIC SCENARIO

54

This scenario provides that in the next 10 years the market of cryptocurrencies will grow from 50 to 200 times (18-60
trillion dollars). In the extreme case, that cryptocurrencies will completely supersede traditional currencies (the fiat)
over the next 20 years.
We also consider the probability of such a scenario as extremely low (at a level below 5%) for the following reasons:
1.

Such scenarios are most often considered by crypto-enthusiasts who do not have real experience in the
banking or financial sphere and vaguely represent how the world economics works.

2.

At the heart of this optimism is the rapid development of the currency and the demand boom as well as the
growth of their rates at the end of 2017. However, as we already showed above, at present time there is a
correction in the markets and the rates fell three times from the peak values.

3.

These figures (18-60 trillion dollars) correspond to the replacement of 30% to 100% of the entire money
supply by cryptocurrencies, which is impossible at the stated dates, because more than half of them are stored
in the debt securities nominated in the traditional currencies.

4.

Such large-scale and rapid transition from traditional currencies to cryptocurrencies will cause a lot of tax,
legal and other problems, creating serious risks for the entire financial system, which the governments will
ban - as we see in the events of 2017-2018.

With all our belief in the bright future of the cryptocurrency, we tend to view their prospects more realistically.

PESSIMISTIC SCENARIO
This scenario provides for stagnation in the crypto-market, which began in January 2018 for a period of 3-5 years,
with a subsequent slow growth. In the most dramatic version it will not exceed the inflation.
We consider the probability of such a scenario as a low one (at the level below 20%), although somewhat higher than
in the previous two scenarios, for the following reasons:
1.

This scenario is based mainly on the fact that after a sharp increase in rates, the cryptocurrency was followed
by a correction in 2017. However, this is an ordinary picture for the stock, currency and commodity markets,
which in itself does not mean stagnation.

2.

The overheated stock and currency markets are the fundamental source of the emergence and growth of rates,
the money is looking for a way out and it is found in cryptocurrencies. This can change in two cases - either
an economic catastrophe or a boom happens.

3.

Unfortunately, there is a probability of a catastrophe. This can happen in the event of a US trade war with
the EU and China, or in the event of a major military conflict. Therefore, this scenario is more likely than the
previous two.

4.

However, as we have already mentioned, the largest financial players Venrock, Morgan Creek, HSBC,
MorganChase and many others enter the cryptocurrency market, which makes sense only if they expect their
rates to grow in the next 2-3 years.

For these reasons, we see no reason for the excessive pessimism.

CONSERVATIVE SCENARIO
This scenario considers the growth of the cryptocurrency market within the next 5 to 10 years from 5 to 20 times (to
a total capitalization of $1.5 to $6 trillion). The market goes through a correction in 2018, the growth begins in the
late 2018 – mid 2019.
This scenario seems to us the most probable (over 60%) for the following reasons:
1.

The market goes through the correction of rates after the boom in late 2017 - January 2018, currently it is in
a phase of stagnation with a downward trend. According to the data of technical analysis and comparison
with the recovery of other markets, the growth phase is unlikely before the end of 2018.

2.

Large financial players (see above) tend to enter the market after its recession - to buy cheaper assets, which
will be followed by the market growth. Usually the interval between these periods is by not more than a year
or two.

55

3.

Throughout the world, from the US to China, the questions of legislative regulation of the cryptocurrency,
ICO, cashing, trading, etc., are being addressed, which causes increased risks for the growth of rates. The
peak is in the second half of 2018 - the first half of 2019.

4.

The overheated stock and currency markets are the fundamental source of the emergence and the growth of
rates, the money is looking for a way out and it is found in cryptocurrencies. And this, if there is no
catastrophe (which is still unlikely), remains true for the coming decades.

5.

Similar forecasts are provided by the most experts of large financial organizations and governments. Which
is well correlated with the behavior of large market players, technical analysis data and news background.

It is this scenario that we consider as the basis for planning the development of our services. Under this scenario,
based on the current level of capitalization and the turnover of TOP-100 leading cryptocurrencies, we made a forecast
for the development of the market for 15 years (until 2032):
Boundaries

Year

Capitalization,
$ trillion

Lower

Upper

Level of volatility

Annual
increase

Annual
turnover

2018

0,35

70%

2019

0,37

2020

0,40

2021
2022

Increase, $ Turnover, $
trln.
trillion.

130%

15%

5%

25%

0,018

0,088

65%

135%

14%

10%

30%

0,037

0,110

60%

140%

13%

15%

35%

0,061

0,141

0,46

50%

150%

12%

20%

40%

0,093

0,186

0,56

50%

160%

12%

23%

43%

0,128

0,240

2023

0,69

50%

180%

12%

25%

45%

0,172

0,309

2024

0,86

50%

200%

11%

25%

45%

0,214

0,386

2025

1,07

50%

200%

11%

25%

45%

0,268

0,482

2026

1,34

50%

200%

11%

23%

43%

0,308

0,576

2027

1,65

50%

200%

10%

20%

40%

0,330

0,659

2028

1,98

50%

200%

10%

20%

40%

0,396

0,791

2029

2,37

50%

200%

10%

18%

38%

0,427

0,902

2030

2,80

50%

200%

9%

15%

35%

0,420

0,980

2031

3,22

50%

200%

9%

12%

32%

0,387

1,031

2032

3,61

50%

200%

9%

10%

30%

0,361

1,082

The dynamics of the market growth and slowdown is taken by analogy with other markets, first of all, the stock and
currency (with which cryptocurrencies are most connected), with characteristic values and dynamics of indicators.
The forecast considers the average annual level of capitalization and does not account for market corrections and
significant external events. The forecast is presented graphically in the Market Review section..
Summary: In accordance with the most conservative estimate within 5 years, the cryptocurrency market
capitalization will reach 1.5 trillion. (twice the peak numbers of 2017 and five times higher than the current one).
The volume of the cryptocurrency payment market should increase no less than 30-50 times (if we take as a basis
the ratio of the volume of electronic payments to traditional currencies to the total amount of the money supply).
With such growth on the market there is every chance to occupy a firm position in the market at least in one of the
niches. The project has good market prospects given it has the competent management, the adequate marketing and
the technological team.

THE GENERAL ANALYSIS OF THE ICO MARKET
The purpose of the ICO market analysis is to assess the likelihood of the successful ICO of the CRYPTOCEAN project
and to raise the necessary funds in the current market situation. In addition, this section may be useful in assessing the
prospects of providing a "Secure ICO" service using the CRYPTOCEAN financial services providing security and
convenience of investments in ICO projects.
If 2017 was repeatedly called the year of the cryptocurrency, then 2018 may well qualify to be the year of ICO. The
first quarter was over-successful in terms of fund-raising, despite a 2.5-fold decrease in the capitalization of the crypto-

56

market. According to preliminary estimates, more than $7.4 billion have already been raised, and this is more than for
the entire 2017, ( $6.9 billion).
The growth in the attracted funds in 2018 occurred despite a number of innovations and restrictions related to
regulatory processes and types of tokens produced (for example, the regulation of the release of tokens by the SEC
and the restrictions on the security tokens).
It was not affected by the ban on the initial placement of tokens in such countries as China and South Korea, as well
as the need for the KYC verification procedure and the introduction of mandatory pre-registration in certain ICO
projects, restrictions on the minimum or maximum amount of the token purchase, digital queue for the right to
purchase tokens, etc.
Key news and events for the I-st quarter of 2018
#

Factors and events

Date of news

The nature of the
influence

Description

1

Kodak plans to launch
its own cryptocurrency

10.01.2018

CEO Kodak said that the company plans to create its own
blockchain platform, which will help solve one of the main
problems in the photo industry, namely the problem of licensing.

ICO↑Positive

2

The city of Berkeley in
California can launch its
own cryptocurrency

06.02.2018

Berkeley may become the first city in the US to hold its own ICO
to raise capital to reduce dependence on the federal budget and
President Trump's administration.

ICO↑Positive

3

Swiss financial regulator
has issued instructions
for ICO

16.02.2018

The purpose of this document is to create a more positive
atmosphere for the development of the blocking industry in the
country, as well as help companies that are going to use this
method of collecting money.

ICO↑Positive

4

Durov brothers applied
to the US Securities
Exchange Commission

17.02.2018

The TON project submitted an application to the US Securities
and Exchange Commission for the registration of the ICO, which
indicated that $ 850 million had already been raised during the
presale. This is one of the few ICO projects that took such a step.
However, this shows that more and more creators of ICO are
ready to contact and work according to the rules of financial
regulators, which is very good for all ICO participants, since the
risk of being deceived is reduced.

ICO↑Positive

5

German regulator
decided on the ICO rules

20.02.2018

The German regulator BaFin issued a list of requirements for ICO
tokens and clarified the situation as to how the law regulates the
release of tokens.

ICO↑Positive

6

Venezuela announced
the beginning of the presale of Petro

20.02.2018

Despite internal contradictions, Venezuela started the ICO process
and launched a pre-sale of its national cryptocurrency, backed by
oil. On the first day, $ 735 million was raised, according to
information in the Twitter-channel of President Maduro.

ICO↑Positive

7

Korea will stop the ban
on ICO with the
introduction of new
rules

11.03.2018

In order to promote the development of blockchain technology,
South Korea's financial authorities are preparing a plan for the
legalization of initial offers of coins (ICO), with the possibility of
investing startups by local crypto-investors. This is reported by
The Korea Times.

ICO↑

Positive

Enlarged indicators of past (completed) ICO
#

Indicator

1

Total funds raised, USD million

2

Number of companies that completed the ICO
(Completed)¹

3

Raised maximum, USD million (ICO name)

4

Raised average, USD million

2017

January 2018

February 2018

March 2018

6890,1

1665

2732

3004,2

514

96

100

89

258 (Hdac)

100 (Envion)

850 (Pre-ICO1TON)

850 (Pre-ICO2TON)

13,4

17,3

27,3

33,8

Note:
¹ Source: tokendata.io, icodrops.com, icodata.io, coinschedule.com, cryptocompare.com, smithandcrown.com. For some ICOs, there is currently
no complete information (for example, the amount raised). The ICO is not considered with a fee amount of less than $ 100,000.
² Subject to Pre-ICO-1.2 TON, Pre-ICO-1 TON, Pre-ICO Petro

57

³ The data for 2018 was updated (updated: 01.04.2018).

Number of funds raised and ICO completed
#

Month

Raised,＄mln.

Avarage, ＄mln.

Number of ICO*

1

January 2017

3,7

7

0,53

2

February

35,3

11

3,21

3

March

7,3

4

1,82

4

April

115,2

18

6,4

5

May

264,2

21

12,58

6

June

649,5

33

19,68

7

July

719,1

36

19,97

8

August

511,2

48

10,65

9

September

914,2

68

13,44

10

October

949,6

91

10,44

11

November

1109

91

12,19

12

December

1611,9

86

18,74

Total, 2017

6890,1

514

13,4

13

January 2018

1665

96

17

14

February 2018

2732

100

27,3

15

March 2018

3004,2

89

33,8

Total for the I quarter of 2018 ***

7401,1

285

26

* Source: tokendata.io, icodrops.com, icodata.io, coinschedule.com, cryptocompare.com, smithandcrown.com. Not all ICOs have information on
the amount of funds raised (information for the previous week is preliminary and can be adjusted). The ICO is not considered with the amount of
less than $ 100,000.
** Over 1 000 ICOs were conducted in 2017. However, when calculating the total amount of funds raised for the year 2017, 514 of the largest and
most popular ICOs are recorded, the data of which are amenable to processing (updated: 01.04.2018).
*** Taking into account Pre-ICO -1,2 TON and taking into account the pre-sale of Petro.

The largest amount of funds for the ICO was collected in February 2018. The largest value for the average raised
funds per ICO was also in February 2018.
Number of ICOs and funds raised in 2017-2018
#

Period

Number of ICO

The amount raised in
2017-18, $ million

1

January 2017

7

3,7

2

February 2017

11

35,3

3

March, 2017

4

7,3

4

April, 2017

18

115,2

5

May 2017

21

264,2

6

June 2017

33

649,5

7

July 2017

36

719,1

8

August, 2017

48

511,2

9

September, 2017

68

914,2

10

October, 2017

91

949,6

11

November, 2017

91

1109,0

12

December, 2017

86

1611,9

13

January 2018

96

1665

14

February 2018

100

2732

15

March, 2018

89

3004.2

58

As we can see, the number of ICOs and the amount of funds raised on them is growing rapidly.
Top 10 ICOs by the volume of the raised funds for the I-st quarter of 2018
#

Title

Category

Raised, $ million

Percent

Completed

1

TON Pre-ICO-1,2

Infrastructure

1700

47,5％

February-March 2018

2

Petro Pre-Sale

Commodities

735

20,6％

19.03.2018

3

Dragon Coin

Gambling ＆ Betting

320

8,9％

15.03.2018

4

Huobi token

Finance

300

8,4％

28.02.2018

5

Bankera

Finance

151,8

4,2%

28.02.2018

6

Envion

Mining

100

2,8％

15.01.2018

7

Elastos

Infrastructure

94,1

2,6％

23.01.2018

8

Zeepin

Data storage

62,6

1,8％

18.01.2018

9

Olympus Labs

Finance

60,3

1,7％

14.01.2018

10

Neuromation

Data storage

51,8

1,4％

07.01.2018

3575,6

100%

Total top-10
* The category is based on expert estimates.

** When compiling the top ICO lists, information is used for the sites tokendata.io, coinschedule.com and other specialized sources. The ICO
project categories correspond to the coinschedule.com site information.
*** Source of data on pre-sale Petro - http://www.elpetro.gob.ve/

An interesting point is that since 2017 the direction and format of the ICO has changed noticeably. In 2017, among
the ICO, technological projects and amateur teams prevailed, little attention was paid to the marketing. The situation
drastically changes in 2018.
The number of projects not directly related to the blockchain technology as such (for example, financial services or
infrastructure) has noticeably increased. The ICO is organized according to the rules of the modern marketing with
the active use of digital technologies.
Summary: The moment for holding the ICO from the market point of view is more than favorable. The project
can be implemented technically, legally and administratively. It is quite realistic to collect the necessary amount
for the project. However, this will require high-quality packaging of the project and active and professional
marketing activities that requires the appropriate budget.

59

IN CONCLUSION
THANK YOU FOR GETTING ACQUAINTED WITH THE WHITE PAPER OF CRYPTOCEAN

Websites:
Project: www.cryptocean.io
ICO: ico.cryptocean.io
Bounty: bounty.cryptocean.io

 Look for the terms and participate in the Bounty at
bounty.cryptocean.io
 Register and purchase the CRON tokens in Your Personal
Account:my.cryptocean.io

E-mail:

YuryMyshinsky

Investors: ico@cryptocean.io

FOUNDER & CEO

Bounty: bounty@cryptocean.io

ico@cryptocean.io

Press: ico@cryptocean.io
SMM: smm@cryptocean.io

© CRYPTOCEAN OU 2018

60

