curioinvest.com
Supercars just got affordable

WHITEPAPER
Version 1 - June 2019

`

Curio AG, Werdenbergerweg 11, 9490 Vaduz, Liechtenstein
info@curioinvest.com
Version 1 Draft for illustration purposes & open review. Subject to change.

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

“

Collectible cars as an
asset class have
significantly
outperformed many
traditional indices such
as the S&P 500 and the
Dow Jones over the
past 15 years.

01

02

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

Table
of Contents
Executive Summary

03

Problem Statement

04

Vision

06

Asset Tokenization

06

Why CurioInvest?

07

How and when is a vehicle resold?

09

Procurement, provenance and storage

10

Sources of revenue

11

Market Overview

12

Main markets and competitive landscape

13

Compliance

13

CurioInvest Roadmap

14

Team and Partners

15

Core team

15

CurioInvest’s Advisory Board

16

CurioInvest’s Partners

16

Disclaimer

17

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

03

Executive Summary
Collectible cars as an asset class have significantly outperformed many traditional indices
such as the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones over the past 15 years. However, this investment
opportunity has only been available to a small group of elite investors due to the following
barriers of entry to the market:
truly rare cars are sold through narrow, elite networks
such vehicles often cost hundreds of thousands of dollars, which means that the
minimum stake is very high
expertise is required to store and maintain the vehicles
specialist knowledge is needed to verify the provenance of the vehicles
the purchase, insurance and sale of the vehicles involves a lot of administration and
paperwork
In combination, these factors have made this asset class even more exclusive than hedge
funds, venture capital or private equity funds.
CurioInvest’s mission is to make it possible for everyone to invest in rare collectable vehicles.
Based in Switzerland and Lichtenstein, CurioInvest is launching an online platform powered
by blockchain technology which enables investors to purchase security tokens directly
backed by limited edition collectable cars. These tokens allow investors to share in the profit
if the value of the underlying vehicle increases.
In this way, CurioInvest is eliminating the barriers to entry to the collectable car market. As a
fractional stake in a vehicle can be purchased online for as little as $500, the minimum
investment required to enter the market is dramatically lowered, enabling investors to
diversify by purchasing stakes in multiple vehicles.
In addition, the CurioInvest platform will greatly simplify the investment process – investors
can register and purchase tokens online, while CurioInvest Invest manages the purchase,
maintenance, insurance and sale of the vehicle, as well as all related administration and
paperwork.
The CurioInvest team has a proven track record of profitably trading investment-grade cars
at Mercuria Helvetica AG and has access to a pipeline of over 500 rare, collectable vehicles.
In addition, CurioInvest has partnered with Mechatronik GmbH to store and maintain the
vehicles.
The CurioInvest Invest platform will bring unprecedented transparency, security and
liquidity to a market that was previously only accessible to elites. Ultimately, CurioInvest
aims to become the Nasdaq of collectable vehicles, hosting an exchange where automotive
security tokens can be traded in near real time.

04

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

Problem Statement
According to the Knight Frank Luxury Investment Index, over the 10-year period up to Q2
2018, collectable vehicles offered a return on investment of 289%. The asset class
outperformed all other alternative investments under review over this period, including
coins (182%), wine (147%), jewelry (125%), and watches (73%).

Despite the size and attractiveness of this asset class, only a small group of elite investors
have had the resources necessary to overcome the barriers to entry to the market:

Restricted Access

01

Many collectable cars are not sold on the open market. Limited edition
collectable vehicles are manufactured in such small numbers that
limitations are placed on who can purchase them. To be eligible to purchase
such a vehicle, prospective buyers usually need to demonstrate that they
have owned multiple other vehicles of the same brand. In addition,
membership of an owner’s club or vintage fan group may be a prerequisite
for purchase.

High Capital Requirement

02

The most valuable and lucrative collectable cars have high initial purchase
prices. Once purchased, the vehicle needs to be insured, stored and
maintained, incurring additional costs before a profit can be realized. While
economies of scale could play a role in reducing such costs, they are rarely
leveraged in the industry at present.

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

05

Expertise

03

Assessing the provenance and value of a car requires specialist knowledge.
This is particularly important when a car is bought on the secondary market,
as the vehicle needs to be inspected by an expert mechanic and all
documentation needs to be verified.

Despite the size and attractiveness of this asset class, only a small group of elite investors
have had the resources necessary to overcome the barriers to entry to the market:

High Transaction Costs

04

Transaction costs are driven by two main factors - non-transparency and
illiquidity. For each vehicle, prospective buyers need to conduct a costly due
diligence process in order to verify the provenance of the car. The lack of
transparency in the existing market erodes trust, meaning that
documentation needs to be independently verified. In addition, collectable
cars are often sold at auctions or through private sales, which makes it
difficult to accurately ascertain the current market value of a vehicle.
Ultimately, this leads to an opaque, illiquid market, hurting both buyer and
seller.

Limited Diversification

05

A collectable car has to be purchased outright, which is in stark contrast to
most other asset classes where fractional ownership is possible. Even
relatively affluent investors cannot afford to own many collectable vehicles,
and are thus exposed to greater risk due to the low degree of diversification.

06

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

Vision
CurioInvest Invest’s vision is to enable everyone to invest in and profit from collectable cars.
By tokenizing investment-grade vehicles, CurioInvest will open up the collectable car
market to thousands of new investors.
The CurioInvest team has a proven track record of profitably trading investment-grade
vehicles at Mercuria Helvetica AG and has partnered with Mechatronik GmbH to provide
the expertise necessary to store and maintain the vehicles. Such partnerships will enable
CurioInvest to manage the entire life cycle of the investment in a cost-effective manner and
to leverage economies of scale.
CurioInvest’s goal is to become the world’s leading platform for the purchase and trade of
collectable security tokens.

Asset Tokenization
Asset tokenization refers to a process
whereby a digital asset is created which is
directly backed by a physical asset such as a
car. The main benefits of asset tokenization
are as follows:
Liquidity/Divisibility: Tokenization enables
clients to invest in an expensive asset like a
supercar, without the need to purchase the
vehicle outright. While this is theoretically
possible using conventional financial
mechanisms, investors typically have to pay
a so-called “illiquidity discount” of up to 2030%. By using tokenization, these costs can
be avoided.
Diversification: Tokenization enables
investors to diversify risk by buying tokens in
multiple cars. This means that if one car
does not perform well, the loss can be offset
by profit on other cars.
Lower Cost: As fewer middlemen are
involved, fees are much lower.
Less bureaucracy: Compared to a
conventional investment, there is very little
bureaucracy because everything can be
controlled and monitored online.
Faster Settlements: The higher liquidity
and automated nature of the system mean
that transactions are much quicker.

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

07

Why CurioInvest?
CurioInvest is well positioned for the following reasons:
CurioInvest is not starting from scratch. CurioInvest’s sister company Mercuria Helvetica AG
has developed lasting relationships with many top-tier automotive companies including
Pagani, Ferrari and Mercedes-Benz. Thus, CurioInvest has access to a pipeline of over 500
rare, collectable vehicles, ensuring exclusive investment opportunities from day one.
CurioInvest has developed a tried-and-tested operational model to manage the entire life
cycle of an automotive investment. CurioInvest has established contacts with car
maintenance companies, insurance companies and tax-free physical storage providers.
CurioInvest has established legal entities in Switzerland and Lichtenstein. Switzerland offers
a stable regulatory environment and investor-friendly laws, while the base in Lichtenstein
allows CurioInvest to legally sell security tokens throughout the European Economic Area,
which comprises all 28 member states of the EU and the three EEA EFTA states Norway,
Iceland and Lichtenstein. Switzerland has become a global hub of blockchain innovation,
ensuring that CurioInvest will have direct access to the right technical talent to scale the
business.
The CurioInvest team and its partners consist of experts with a proven track record in the
automotive, IT, financial and investment industries.

08

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

Business Model
CurioInvest Invest aims to use modern technologies such as crowdfunding and asset
tokenization to bring many new small- and mid-level investors to the market. This is
achieved in a 5-step process for each vehicle:

CurioInvest Invest identifies a rare classic or modern collectable car that is
priced competitively and likely to increase in value over time. (CurioInvest
Invest is a spin-off of Mercuria Helvetica AG, which has a proven track
record of trading supercars profitably for 4 years. CurioInvest’s founders
and advisory board have combined industry experience of over 50 years.)

To finance the car, CurioInvest Invest launches a crowdfunding campaign.
Investors and car enthusiasts can now invest in the vehicle. The funds are
stored in an escrow (smart contract). If the crowdfunding campaign is
successful, CurioInvest Invest will acquire the vehicle and place it in
storage with its maintenance partner, Mechatronik Fahrzeug- Und
Motorentechnik GmbH. If the crowdfunding campaign cannot be
completed within three months, investors will be refunded everything
except third-party payment processing fees.

Once the vehicle is purchased, CurioInvest Invest issues security tokens
representing the value of the car. These tokens are then distributed to the
investors, proportional to the size of their investment. The security token
confers the right on the tokenholder to share in the profit if the value of
the vehicle increases.

The token is distributed to a wallet which is automatically generated
when the user signs up on the CurioInvest Invest platform. The token can
be traded peer to peer. The token also has an associated ISIN
(International Securities Identification Number) and thus, it can
potentially be traded on forthcoming digital exchanges like a
conventional security.

If the conditions for disposal are met, the vehicle is resold (see: Section 3.1,
below). All tokenholders receive a share of the proceeds of the sale
proportional to their token holdings minus costs (storage, maintenance
and insurance, for example) and the CurioInvest performance fee of 20%
(which will be waived for the Ferrari F12tdf).Tokenholders who have
acquired the token OTC or on a secondary market are obliged to sign up
on the CurioInvest Invest platform and become a verified user in order to
cash out. A KYC check is required for all investments.

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

09

The following example is intended to represent a model case:

Cost base value (890'000 tokens)
Gross sales price

EUR 890,000.00
EUR 1'100'000.00

Gross profit

EUR 210'000.00

Deduction of running costs (insurance, storage, maintenance etc)

- EUR 25,000.00

Net sales profit
Deduction of performance fee for CurioInvest Invest (25%)
- not applicable to the first car on the platform (Ferrari F12tdf)
Net appreciation
Distribution revenue

How And When Is A
Vehicle Resold?
For all of the cars listed on the platform,
CurioInvest is targeting a 20% IRR before the
payment of fees. To achieve this, the vehicle
will be offered for sale to selected collectors,
on online platforms and on the CurioInvest
Invest website.
A sale is subject to the following conditions:
In the first two years, a sale can only take
place if the gross sales price is 25% above
the purchase price.
In the three subsequent years, a sale can
only take place if the gross sales price is
20% above the purchase price.
After five years, there is no minimum sale
price.

The proceeds from the sale of the vehicle
(gross sales proceeds) are used to cover
ongoing costs such as insurance,
maintenance and storage. This results in the
net sales proceeds.
Afterwards, a 20% performance is deducted
from the net profit. This will not be levied on
the first car on the platform (Ferrari F12tdf).

EUR 185 ' 000.00
- EUR 46 250
EUR 138.750
EUR 1'028'750

10

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

Procurement, Provenance & Storage
Investing in collectable cars requires expertise, including knowledge of how to procure and
value a vehicle. Once a car is procured, it must be stored and maintained in ideal conditions
to retain its value. Thus, specialized facilities and technical talent are required in order to
invest in this asset class.

Provenance
Particularly in the case of classic cars, the provenance of a vehicle plays a key role in
determining its value. For this reason, authentic documentation and a verifiable history are
crucial. Assessing the provenance of a vehicle requires specialist knowledge and years of
training. Over 4 years of successfully trading collectable vehicles, CurioInvest’s sister
company Mercuria Helvetica AG has built up the knowledge and expertise necessary to
make these judgements.

Safeguarding the Assets
CurioInvest will store vehicles at a highly secure and climate-controlled storage
facility near Stuttgart, Germany managed by our partner, Mechatronik GmbH.
The site has 24-hour security and investors will be able to monitor the vehicle via
webcam.

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

11

Sources Of Revenue
CurioInvest Invest has three main sources of revenue:
1.

5% finder’s fee: when a car seller lists a vehicle on the CurioInvest platform, we charge
the car seller a 5% fee if 100% of the car tokens are successfully sold.

2. 20% performance fee: in the case of a successful exit scenario when the vehicle is
resold, CurioInvest takes a 20% performance fee after covering costs
3. Subscription fees when the platform achieves sufficient scale:
We are planning to implement a tiered “freemium” subscription model, outlined below.
Everybody will be able to sign-up and invest for free. For $10 a month, users will get early
access to new cars on the platform and additional digital content and privileges. For €70 a
month, users get personal one-on-one service and physical access to the cars at events.
CurioInvest will waive all subscription fees for the first 12-18 months after deployment or
until a critical mass of 10k-20k users has been reached.

Basic

Premium

VIP

FREE

€9.99

€70.00

monthly
subscription or for
free if invested 10k+

(monthly subscription
or for free if invested
100k+

Basic features &:

Plus features and:

Early access: invest in cars
before they are open to
everyone

Personal account
manager

Basic (For Free)

Personal account with
portfolio management
interface
Access to premium cars:
pipeline of over 500 cars
Multi-currency: Invest in
traditional currencies.
No return, no fee: you
don’t pay any fees unless
you investment succeeds.
Full service investment:
Curio manages every
aspect of the investment
such as transport, storage
and insurance
Invest securely: highest
possible security,
decentralized and
encrypted through DLT &
FMA compliant

Documentation required
for taxation
Content about cars
(magazine)
Livestream events where
members can “ask the
expert” about features of
the supercars at the
storage facility in
Germany

Invitation to events where
members can see the
vehicle in person
Invitation to events where
members can test drive a
selection of supercars

12

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

Market Overview
The collectible car market has been one of the strongest performing alternative asset
classes of the last decade, with values increasing 289% in the 10-year period up to Q2 2018.
To some extent, this is being driven by the globalization of the collectible car market, which
has meant that there are now more international bids for the most sought-after collectible
vehicles. In addition, the market has expanded from the core strongholds of the US and
Europe to other regions such as China and the Middle East, which provides some degree of
insulation from local economic fluctuations.
The sector is by no means limited to classic cars – exclusive limited edition supercars have
also exhibited strong growth in value in relatively short periods of time. For example, while
the Ferrari F12tdf initially sold for a price believed to be in the region of $500,000 in October
2015 (to a select group of buyers), an example was sold for $1.5 million at private auction in
June 2016.

The collectible car market is ultimately driven by scarcity. McKinsey predicts that by 2030,
80% of the car industry’s profits will stem from ACES (automated, electric, connected and
shared) vehicles and services. We believe that the impending reorganisation of the car
industry towards alternative drivetrains such as electric and hydrogen will serve to increase
the cachet and value of the petrol supercars of today.
Thus, while the growth in value of blue-chip vehicles slowed in 2018, we believe the
fundamentals remain strong for targeted investments in highly exclusive classic and limited
edition supercars. Indeed, according to Hagerty, three of the eleven most expensive cars
ever sold exchanged hands in August 2018.

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

13

Main Markets &
Competitive Landscape
CurioInvest operates in the EEA, EU and Switzerland. CurioInvest is in competition with a
small number of other companies which offer similar types of crowdfunded profit
participation. While similar companies such as Bitcar.io and Rallyrd.com have attracted
investment in Australia and the US respectively, no competitor of similar size currently
exists in the EU/EEA region.

Compliance
CurioInvest will take advantage of recent developments on the regulatory front in
Lichtenstein, which provide the blockchain sector with a stable legal foundation. For each
vehicle listed on the platform, CurioInvest will register the associated asset-backed STO
directly with Lichtenstein’s financial regulator, the FMA. Each security asset will be issued an
ISIN which is compliant across the EU.

14

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

CurioInvest Roadmap
Jul 18
CurioInvest Capital AG
incorporated in Zug,
Switzerland

June 19
CurioInvest Launch Pad Game
Offering
The public Sale of CurioInvest
Tokens is planned for 2Q 2019. After
CurioInvest Game becomes
available, global users would be able
to register in waiting list to be the
first to participate when security
token platform is available

July 19
Prospectus draft ready
compatible with DLT

Aug 21
New Financial Products
Issuance
Explore potential benefits
of Ferrari Index, Porsche
Index.

Oct 18
CurioInvest AG
incorporated in
Liechtenstein, Vaduz

Nov 18
Platform tech ready,
regulatory draft
confirmation
https://github.com/CurioInv
estTeam

Aug 19
Inaugural Issuance STO
Ferrari F12tdf Sale

Feb 2020
CurioInvest may collaborate
with other entities by
launching a DAICO to offer all
or some services in a fully
tested and decentralized
environment
https://github.com/CurioInves
tTeam/daico-contracts

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

15

Team & Partners
Fernando Verboonen
Founder & CEO

Before CurioInvest Capital, Fernando served as the CEO at Mercuria
Helvetica, a fintech investment firm specializing in exotic cars.
Fernando’s extensive experience includes participating in the exit of
Swiss portfolio firm CVC. He has also worked at Sunrise and an ETH
spin-off, kooaba. Additionally, Fernando was involved in venture
capital projects in software at Siemens VC. He started his career at
Mercedes Benz. Fernando holds an MSc from ETH Zürich with
training at Oxford and is an ESKAS Fellow.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/rverboonen/

Valerie Halter

Co-Founder & CEO
Add Image
here

International Business Developer with +8 years experience in the
financial industry supporting Vontobel and Mercuria Helvetica, with
a focus on highly exclusive cars. Valerie is a car enthusiast, with
gasoline in her veins. After working in the banking sector, she
decided to pursue her passion for cars and shifted her focus to the
fintech sector.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/valeriefhalter/

Jan Van den Broeck MA
Legal & Compliance
Add Image
here

Jan provides CurioInvest with independent legal advice to ensure
regulatory compliance and a smooth onboarding process for
investors. He works as an external consultant at Google in San
Francisco, specializing in automotive search features. Prior to
moving to Silicon Valley, Jan gained experience as an in-house
lawyer at an investment firm in Belgium. He holds a master’s degree
in financial law.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/jan-van-den-broeck-38304055/

Vladimir Kislinkskii MSc
Chief Technology Officer
Add Image
here

Prior to joining CurioInvest, Vladimir led tech development for
numerous DLT projects. He is an expert in Solidity, and is currently
focused on the DAICO concept for the CurioInvest environment.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/vladimir-kislinskii-468a15153/

16

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

CurioInvest’s Advisory Board
CurioInvest assembled an advisory board consisting of highly successful entrepreneurs and
industry experts.

Tom Frey

Dr. Tom Frey has been working for Baumgartner Mächler since 2009 in the area of civil law
and civil procedural law. His work has a main focus on litigation proceedings in the banking
sector as well as in other corporate law matters and disputes. In addition, he advises and
represents clients in contract, employment and tenancy law matters as well as in the area
of data protection and legal matters relating to the blockchain technology. Admitted to the
Swiss Bar

Matthias Niedermüller PhD

Securities Law DLT Advisor to Liechtenstein Crypto Exchange together with Jimmy Wales.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthias-niederm%C3%BCller-393871aa/

Harald Steiger

Board member and advisor of several Swiss startups. Car collector.

Frank Rickert

Mechatronik CEO, among Europe’s biggest private collection car garages.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/frank-rickert-12195097/

Boris Paskalev, MIT

CEO Deep Code
Project Manager & Strategist
https://www.linkedin.com/in/bpaskalev/

CurioInvest’s Partners
Mechatronik Fahrzeug AG

Mechatronik are experts when it comes to the maintenance, storage and restoration of
collectable vehicles.

Mercuria Helvetica

Mercuria Helvetica advises clients on how to strategically invest in vehicles. The firm also
provides a wide range of services in the premium vehicle sector.

RABAG

RABAG is a company specialized in the storage of collectable vehicles.

18

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

Disclaimer
This document does not constitute an offer or sale of the CurioInvest Tokens or any other
mechanism for purchasing CurioInvest Tokens (such as, without limitation, a “Simple
Agreement for Future Tokens” related to the CurioInvest Tokens). Any offer or sale of the
CurioInvest Tokens or any related instrument will occur only based on definitive offering
documents for the CurioInvest Tokens or the applicable instrument.
The Whitepaper does not purport to be all-inclusive or necessarily contain all the
information that a prospective investor may desire in investigating the Company, and may
be subject to updating, withdrawal, revision or amendment. No representation or warranty,
express or im-plied, is or will be given by CurioInvest ("The Company"), their advisers or any
of their respective direc-tors, shareholders, partners or employees as to the accuracy or
completeness of the Whitepaper or the information or opinions contained therein.

Any projections given are illustrative only and none of the projections or assumptions
should be taken as promises on the part of the Company nor should they be taken as
implying any indication, assurance or guarantee that those assumptions are correct or
exhaustive. The Whitepaper contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate
to, amongst other things, the Company's future prospects, developments and business
strategies. Forward-looking sta-tements are identified by their use of terms and phrases
such as "believe", "could", "envisage", estimate", "intend", "may", "plan", "will" or the negative
of those, variations or comparable expressions, including references to assumptions.

The forward-looking statements in this Whitepaper are based on current expectations and
are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those expressed or implied by those statements. If one or more of these risks or
uncertainties mate-rializes, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, the Company's
actual results may vary materially from those expected, estimated or projected.
Given these risks and uncertainties, potential investors should not place any reliance on
forward looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made only as at the
date of the Whitepaper. Each recipient of the Whitepaper must make their own
independent as-sessment of the information provided by the Company and is
recommended to seek inde-pendent advice on the contents here of from an authorized
person specializing in advising on investments of the kind in question.
Neither the Company, nor any of their advisers, nor their respective directors, partners,
repre-sentatives, agents, consultants or employees shall be liable for any direct, indirect or
conse-quential loss or damage suffered by any person relying on statements or omissions
from the Whitepaper and to the maximum extent permitted by law, all conditions,
warranties and other terms which might be implied by statute, common law or the law of
equity and any such liabi-lity are expressly excluded. The Whitepaper should not be
construed as a recommendation to prospective investors by the Company or any of their
respective officers to invest in the Company or its token.

WHITEPAPER Version 1 - June 2019

19

No other rights are associated with the CurioInvest token, in particular no share in the
future company earnings or future capital flows, nor is there any right for repayment.
Nothing herein constitutes an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, any tokens,
nor shall there be any offer, solicitation or sale of tokens in any jurisdiction in which such
offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. You should carefully read and fully understand
this business plan and any updates. Every potential token purchaser will be required to
undergo an on-boarding process that includes identity verification and certain other
documentation, which you should read carefully and understand fully because you will be
legally bound. Please make sure to consult with appropriate advisors and others. This
business plan describes our current vision for the CurioInvest Platform. While we attempt to
realize this vision, please recognize that it is dependent on quite a number of factors and
subject to quite a number of risks. It is entirely possible that the CurioInvest Platform will
never be implemented or adopted, or that only a portion of our vision will be realized. We
do not guarantee, represent or warrant any of the statements in this business plan, because
they are based on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions, about which there can
be no assurance due to various anticipated and unanticipated events that may occur.
Please know that we plan to work hard in seeking to achieve the vision laid out in this
business plan, but that you cannot rely on any of it coming true. Blockchain,
cryptocurrencies and other aspects of our technology and these markets are in their infancy
and will be subject to many challenges, competition and a changing environment. We will
try to update our community as things grow and change, but undertake no obligation to do
so.

Supercars just got affordable

curioinvest.com

