DeXe DAO
MEMORANDUM

Contents
What’s a DAO?

2

Why DAO for DeXe.network?

3

Decentralization
Self-sovereignty
Accessibility

3
3
3

Transparency
Trust & Confidentiality

4
4

DeXe.network Token

5

DEXE within DeXe DAO
Members’ accession and exit
Voting and Proposals
Proposals
Implementation
Veto
DeXe Representatives
Management of Funds
Allocation of Funds
Interruption of Protocol Functioning

5
5
6
7
7
8
9
11
13
14

Closing Remarks

15

What’s a DAO?
DAO or ​decentralized autonomous organization is an permissionless alternative to the centralized
management of legal entities, which has been a cause of long-lasting troubles found under the key words of
“minority shareholders”, “lack of control”, “unethical management”, “corruption” etc.

Decentralized basically means that there is no central management, board of directors, CEO, COO, CTO and
other similar acronyms typical for traditional entities. The organization is governed by the code or protocol
which is designed specifically to facilitate governance of the organization. The typical dilemma of power
concentration and ignorance of general interest is by nature impossible in DAO, since each and every
stakeholder (usually token holder) in DAO has equal voting rights. All the decisions about economical,
ideological, social development of the project and community behind DAO are made by voting by all
stakeholders of DAO and all the transactions are irreversible thanks to blockchain.

Autonomous ​feature of the organization is secured also by the protocol – smart contract, since the daily
operations of the organization are automatically enforced when meeting a specific condition (e.g. majority of
votes in favor) by the protocol.

Organization ​implies creation of community with certain rules, or if voted so by the community members –
with no rules at all. Thus, the rules of the DAO, which are usually strictly defined in the traditional entity’s
by-laws, are voted on by the members of DAO. Since there is no management in the DAO, each member has to
contribute to the organization by voting and providing proposals for flourishing organization. Members of DAO
are not tied by any formal contracts or obligations and are driven by the mutual goal and network incentives
which circle around the transparent consensus rules.

DAO promotes the integrity of all members of the community, elimination of power concentration, access to
trusted business and ecosystem for everyone and optimization of collaboration by autonomy and contribution.

Inspired by Ethereum’s vision, we have long committed to the ideals of permissionless access, security, and
immutability, all indespensable components for a future where anyone in the world can access financial
services without fear of discrimination or counterparty risk.

​Dexe.Network​

2

Why DAO for DeXe.network?
Decentralization
Ownership and power concentration become a “thing”, when the company grows.
Statistics that within ​50% of 50 000 listed companies worldwide with a combined market
value of USD 80 trillion, the ​3 largest shareholders held ​50% of the capital​1​. ​
These
shareholders have the power to directly influence the development vector of the company,
as well as influence and elect the executive board.
In DAO the power is decentralized and even though an executive body in DeXe DAO is
offered to be elected in order to perform the tasks which currently remain outside of the
smart contract functionality, their powers are limited exclusively by the results of the
voting.
Besides, token holder may submit a proposal on every matter and the proposal may only be
accepted or declined upon the voting procedure.

Self-sovereignty
Members of DAO can easily access and exit DAO. No invitation from existing members is
required to enter DeXe DAO. You share the values and mission of the community, you are
interested in joining it by purchasing tokens? You are a member of DeXe DAO.
In order to exit DAO no tiring selling procedures, shareholder resolutions or other
time-consuming bureaucratic stuff is involved. You receive the payment for your tokens
depending on their listing value and quit the DAO. Thus, whenever you dislike the
movement of the organization you may try to remedy the situation by your proposals or
quit DeXe DAO effortlessly and with no financial risks involved.

Accessibility
DAO exists within no specific national legal field, thus there are no legislative limitations as
to the nationality of members, local directors or secretaries, proves of addresses and other
time-wasting requirements which any of you, who have ever tried to enter a foreign entity
must have encountered.

1

http://www.oecd.org/corporate/Corporate-Governance-Factbook.pdf​page 17
​

​Dexe.Network​

3

DeXe.network values its versatile community and the contribution of its members from all
over the world and DAO perfectly satisfies the conditions for the development of such
inclusive community.

Transparency
Protocols that constitute DeXe DAO are open-sourced. This contributes to the community,
since the code can be reused by anyone wishing to start another DAO and extend the
ecosystem. Besides, the code may be reviewed by anyone to ensure how the processes in
the DAO work, as well as review all the transactions made within DAO, which are
immutably recorded on Blockchain.
Whereas the system is decentralized, the choices by the members may only be made freely
without any pressure or coercion.

Trust & Confidentiality
Whereas the system is decentralized, the choices by the members may only be made freely
without any pressure or coercion, and the confidentiality ensures that the location, name
and appearance of the members is protected by privacy of cryptography. In DeXe DAO each
member is identified exclusively by their crypto-wallet number. This also eliminates the risk
of “teaming up” intentionally for or against an idea, person or proposal, since voting
remains anonymous.
Besides, the autonomous smart contracts of DeXe.network eliminate the risks of
transferring digital wallet details such as private keys and API, any virtual currency data or
other personal data to a third party.

DeXe DAO will become an open, globally accessible community based on
contribution from all the members.
The network participants – token holders are an invaluable resource for the
development of DeXe.network, and your participation in the governance of
DeXe DAO proportionally provides for the network growth.

​Dexe.Network​

4

DeXe.network Token
The DeXe token (DEXE) enables the open and permissionless system. Following protocol rules and contributing
resources facilitates consensus between participants.
The token has two vital functions:
(1) Automatic buyback and distribution among insurance vault, farming rewards among token holders and
burning of tokens for a % of traders’ rewards. Refer to ​DeXe Light Paper​for more details.
(2) Participation in DeXe DAO.
It is not required to be a DEXE token holder to participate in DeXe.network and benefit from the several of its
social trading functions. Moreover, DeXe is uploading DEXE smart contract into the open-source community
which is free speech and is the fundamental tenants of our Memorandum. However, in order to be able to fully
participate in the community, receive the voting right, contribute through proposals and benefit from the
incentives inside the network, basically, to become the member of DAO, you are required to acquire DEXE.

DEXE within DeXe DAO

Members’ accession and exit

Both entrance and exit of new members to DeXe DAO are permissionless.
Everyone may become a member by acquiring DeXe token (DEXE) during the token sale or further on, which is
further described in details in ​DeXe Light Paper​.Upon purchasing DEXE token holders becomes the member of
DAO token and receives all of the economic rights implied under DEXE, as well as the right to (a) vote; (b)
submit proposals; and (c) become DeXe Representative. Each DEXE provides the member with one vote, thus
the system similar to usual shareholding is created.
Each member may quit DeXe DAO at any time for any reason and without involving any reputational or
financial risks.
Members shall be also entitled to kick the member of the DAO out, however, exclusively in the case when the
member has maliciously (a) continuously paused the properly functioning protocol or caused the network
​Dexe.Network​

5

shutdown without any objective reasons (see Section “Interruption of Protocol Functioning”); (b) has
implemented the changes into the protocol without taking the proposal through the proper voting procedure
if the decision has been vetoed and the change has caused damage to the network; or (c) by any other means
has intruded into the smooth and proper functioning of the protocol. The kick-out shall be performed through
the general voting procedure. Kick-out will result in the automatic black-listing of the member’s account
(wallet), which will disable them from participating in the voting, as well as review voting proposals.

Voting and Proposals

Every change in the structure of DeXe DAO, its daily operations and plans, as well as any business and
functionality decisions regarding DeXe.network may only be implemented upon the proper on-chain voting by
the token holders.
For instance, regarding DeXe.network the vote may be on, but not limited to:
(1) the period of time and regulating the percentage of burned tokens;
(2) amount of farming rewards received (increase or decrease the % of accrual);
(3) amount of burning of tokens for a % of traders’ rewards;
(4) amount of burning of the insurance vault;
(5) the insurance event and to deploy assets (likely a stablecoin like USDC) from the insurance vault;
(6) ability to vote for the date of burning tokens and the accrual of farming rewards.
Refer to ​DeXe Light Paper​for more details.
As to the DeXe DAO token holders may vote on, but not limited to:
(1) financial incentives within the DAO;
(2) change of DeXe DAO memo;
(3) grants of DAO funds for the development of ecosystem;
(4) addition of new features to the DAO protocol.
Etc.

​Dexe.Network​

6

Proposals
The list of actions brought to voting is unlimited, since so is the creativity of the DeXe DAO network. Each and
every change may be introduced and implemented exclusively via the proposals process. The proposal may be
submitted by DeXe DAO member and may include any offer, preferably beneficial to the community.
The process shall go on as follows:
(1) DeXe DAO member submits the proposal. Thereupon the 7 day consideration period begins.
(2) 4% of DeXe DAO members should vote on the proposal via exclusively on-chain voting to reach
quorum.
(3) One DEXE = one vote.
(4) The voting is anonymous, the count of votes is permanently visible.
(5) The proposal is regarded approved by network upon the end of the consideration period, if the
majority of the token holders of DeXe DAO went for “in favor”.
(6) The decision upheld by the majority is thus similar to the usual voting in traditional entities, however
the approval of the proposal constitutes a binding demand for DeXe DAO protocol.

Initial governance parameters at DeXe DAO are:
- 1% of DEXE total supply (delegated) to submit a governance
proposal;
- 4% of DEXE supply required to vote ’yes’ to reach quorum;
- 7 day voting period;
- 2 day timelock delay on execution.

Implementation
In case of the proposal’s approval, there are two possible ways of its implementation into protocol:
(1) On-chain implementation​.
Vast majority of the possible changes may be implemented automatically by the protocol and require
no action from the token holders. Upon the approval of the proposal and end of the consideration
period the system will automatically implement new changes. One example for such a change is a
contract DEXE holders can use to vote on portfolios for which they will collect fees or the amount of
fees DeXe.network can collect. The community is encouraged to consult knowledgeable legal and
regulatory professionals before implementing any specific proposal.
(2) Off​-​chain implementation.
There may appear voted proposals, which require additional actions which may not be automatically
performed by the protocol. For instance, change in the interface of the DeXe.network platform or
change to the text of the DeXe DAO memo and respective changes to the protocol. For these needs
the DeXe Representatives will be elected (see section “DeXe Representatives” for further details). They
​Dexe.Network​

7

will be in charge of facilitating all and any off-chain changes, which have been voted by the token
holders.

Veto
In case the member of DeXe DAO implements or initiates the implementation of any change to DeXe DAO
protocol, DeXe.network or any other change, which has not been properly voted on and thus without the
consensus of the community, the token holders have the veto right. If the token holders use their veto right
upon the unagreed change, the system will automatically stop the implementation of the change.
This right is of paramount importance for the community, since every transaction in DeXe DAO shall adhere to
the consensus principle.

Each decision which influences DeXe.network and DeXe DAO may be
exclusively taken via voting procedure.
Thus, the network achieves (a) transparency and total engagement of its
members; (b) premediated decisions taken by those, interested in the
network growth; (c) ideas and incentives for the upgrade of the protocols
and system from the whole community rather than managing part of the
organization.

​Dexe.Network​

8

DeXe Representatives

As it was slightly mentioned before, there are certain changes that the network decides to implement, which
are out of the scope of on-chain automatic implementation. We as a community encourage all of us to
contribute to the protocol in order to increase its autonomous functionality and the core-team of the
developers are currently working on possible ways of total transition to on-chain changes enabling. We,
however, simultaneously realize the need for immediate reasonable decision for the current state of the
project’s development.

Whereas complete decentralization is our ultimate goal, the risk of the
project blockage for the sake of its immediate achievement will actually be a
disservice to the decentralized community and DeXe.network in particular.

In the traditional organizations the founders and core team of the project are usually the management board
of the company. This is however alien to DAO as a concept and our striving for decentralization. The DeXe
Representatives shall be elected by the token holders on the basis of representative democracy. Each and
every member will have the possibility to submit their candidacy for the DeXe Representative and the other
members shall vote on the exact candidate. In view of the initial token allocation, it is suggested that the
community shall elect 5 DeXe Representatives for primary functioning. Upon the network’s growth the number
and election procedure of the Representatives shall become the subject of voting.
If the elected DeXe Representative(s) continuously fails to perform their main and only obligation of off-chain
facilitation of the approved proposals, token holders may vote for the removal of the representative and
reelection of the new one.
DeXe Representatives shall remain unbiased and thus in order to eliminate the highly doubtful, though existing
possibility of external influence on them, DeXe Representatives will receive remuneration for their functions in
DEXE. The amount of remuneration, mode of payment and calculation shall become the issue to be voted on
by the DeXe DAO members, so that the consensus representing the balance between the incentive for the
Representatives’ work and impartiality is established.

​Dexe.Network​

9

It is important to keep in mind that the core team of DeXe.Network will not
automatically become DeXe Representatives and their status will be equal to
the status of all token holders.

However, the core team will remain in the process of the protocol development, auditing, and other matters in
order to extend the decentralization functions of DAO protocol. At the same time, any changes to the protocol
by the core team members will be put on vote in a regular manner. Core team will not participate directly in
governance for the foreseeable future, although they may delegate votes to protocol delegates without
seeking to influence their voting decisions. The core team should also be a first “go-to” for the DeXe
representatives if the voted change requires the upgrade of the protocol, since it will only be beneficial for the
network. However, the core team does not claim to be the “all-mighty” and if there are tasks that need to be
performed by external experts the DeXe Representatives are invited to introduce them to the community.
Finally, the core team may be required to implement some emergency changes in case the protocol fails. Upon
such changes’ implementation and restoration of the system’s proper functioning, shall the changes negatively
influence the previous functionality of the DAO protocol – the members may use their veto right on them.

DeXe.network governance will be live from day one, although full protocol
functionality and control over the treasury will be delayed until the end of
2020. Control over the DeXe.network fee switch is subject to a delay as well

​Dexe.Network​

10

Management of Funds

Token Holders Incentives
One of the DEXE functionality includes automatic buyback and distribution among insurance vault, farming
rewards among token holders and burning of tokens for a % of traders’ rewards, proportionally within
DeXe.network. DeXe.network processes automatic buyback from its social trading activity. By default 1\3 of
automatic buyback shall be distributed in the sake of the development of DeXe.network. The distribution is
monthly made automatically by the protocol (more detailed in the DeXe WP). However, the members of DAO
shall take initiative to further vote on the amount of buyback automatically processed for DeXe.network, as
well as directed to other needs of the platform, its development, community and ecosystem enhancement etc.
Members of DeXe DAO will remain in full custody of the funds and their streaming to the most important, as
decided by consensus, goals.
Besides, the token holders are well invited to create other initiatives and incentives which may be rewarded by
DEXE, for instance if any of the members personally upgrades the protocol, introduces drastic positive changes
or otherwise significantly contributes to the community. DeXe Representatives shall also be rewarded via the
token holders incentives mechanism, as the community shall decide.

Grant of Funds and other
DeXe network is committed to contributing and enhancing the decentralized ecosystem within the DeXe DAO
community and far behind its membership. Thus, DeXe is committed to allocate DEXE tokens for the purposes
of conduction of meetups, grants to the community, learning and spread of knowledge, partnership. As
described in further details in ​DeXe Light Paper​, 33% of DEXE tokens are intended to be used for these
purposes.
DeXe network is also committed to contributing to a strategic ecosystem partnerships that facilitates
consensus between participants and includes, among other features, protocol participation, community
building and research.
However, the exact decision as to the management of funds and their direction for the ecosystem needs shall
be taken exclusively by the token holders via the usual voting procedure. Members of DeXe DAO are welcomed
to introduce any possibilities of ecosystem growth by the proposals brought to voting and thus allow the
community to choose the most decent ways of funds’ contributions.

​Dexe.Network​

11

Investment
With the growth of DeXe.network there may appear investors who, being encouraged by the ideas of DeXe
network, will be interested in the investment of the network as such, outside of the usual token acquiring
procedure. Where this investment may be beneficial to the network, the members are invited to come up with
the idea of how to accept this investment. For instance, the incentive to issue additional tokens for the
investor or to create the pool of tokens of those members, ready to sell their tokens to the investors.

In any case, any proposal as to the acceptance of investment, mode and
terms of such investment shall be voted on by the members of DeXe DAO.
Same, any other decision that will result in any funds transaction will require
a proper voting procedure, transferring the decentralised control of funds to
the DeXe DAO community.

​Dexe.Network​

12

Allocation of Funds

Whereas DeXe.network aims to complete decentralization and grant of complete funds, including treasury,
management to the community, the functioning of the DeXe.network already inherently requires several
expenditure items to be constantly paid for. These include expenses for market-making, smart contracts
development, marketing etc.
Such expenses will be carefully considered by the core team and presented to the public annually. By their
nature seem to be possible to be changed exclusively if the partners of DeXe.network (exchanges,
marketmakers, marketing agency, developers are changed) are also altered. These expenses shall be currently
accepted by the token holders as necessary for the maintenance of the platform and the members shall also
realise that they may proportionally grow with the growth of the network.

At the same time, DeXe DAO community will be extremely grateful to and
supportive of any member or initiative that will find a way to decrease
annually presented expenses without any losses of productivity and smooth
functioning and development of the network.

​Dexe.Network​

13

Interruption of Protocol Functioning

Pause by Member
In case of the incident, malfunction or disruption of the protocol functioning every member may
pause their oracle or the whole system by initiating the temporary pause procedure. If the
malfunction appears to be actually hurting the functioning of DeXe.network the protocol will either
solve the issue or the core team of developers will be involved in order to solve the bug ASAP.
However, in order to prevent abuse of the pause procedure, the community has the following
prevention mechanisms:
(1) The pause period shall be limited to the primarily decided by the token holders time period;
and
(2) In case there is no malfunctioning happening but the member or several of them continues
to disrupt the function of the protocol, the remaining members may by virtue of voting
unpause the protocol.

Shutdown of Protocol
In case the protocol automatically detects malicious phenomena in the network, the protocol will
automatically shut itself down and restore upon the solution of the problem autonomously or by the core
development team. At the same time, if the token holders obtain control over the system by any possible
means and are assured of the protocol’s functioning safety, they, by virtue of general voting procedure, may
reenable the functioning of the protocol.

​Dexe.Network​

14

Closing Remarks
DeXe DAO contributes to the decentralised ecosystem by putting their efforts into complete decentralization
of platforms. It also creates a safe ​environment for the operation and development of DeXe.network, where all
funds, governance and essential elements of the system are decentralized and autonomous.
Every member of DeXe DAO may and is invited to contribute to the network through the proposals. Every
member of DeXe DAO has the ability to influence the strategy and development of the network and the
project. Every member of DeXe DAO is entitled to transparent observance of all transactions and protocols,
and every member has the equal ability to impact the development of the whole ecosystem.

​Dexe.Network​

15

