This Document is not a Prospectus
This document does not constitute nor imply a prospectus of any sort. No wording contained
herein should be construed as a solicitation for investment. Accordingly, this whitepaper
does not pertain in any way to an offering of securities in any jurisdiction worldwide
whatsoever. Rather, this whitepaper constitutes a technical description of the functionality of
the DMD Diamond Blockchain.

1

Table of Contents
Table of Contents
1. Executive Summary
2. Background
2.1 Industry challenges
2.2 The DMD Diamond History
2.3 The HoneyBadger BFT Consensus Algorithm
3. DMD Diamond Solution
3.1 Mission
3.2 Features and Benefits
3.2 Interoperability and Migration for DApps
3.3 Smart Contract Support
3.4 Secure Consensus
3.5 Network Participants
3.5.1 Coin Holders & Wallets
3.5.2 Validators
3.6 Governance
3.6.1 Proposal cycles
3.6.2 DAO Voting Change Decision by Validator
4. Technology
4.1. The Components of DMD Diamond v4 Blockchain
4.2 Node Selection through POSDAO
4.3 Consensus Mechanism
4.3.1 Lightweight Consensus Mechanism
4.3.2 Honey Badger BFT Protocol
4.3.2.1 The HBBFT Main Features
4.3.2.2. HBBFT Features to Guard Against Attacks
4.3.2.4 Instant Block Finality
4.3.2.5. Block validation
4.4. Nodes and Network Participants
5. DMD Coin Economy
5.1. DMD Coin Features
5.2. Issuance of Tokens
5.3. Network initiation
5.4. Migration from DMDv3 to DMDv4
5.5. Solving the Lost Coins Problem (Previously Treasure Digging)
5.6. Use of Funds
6. Roadmap
7. Team

2

1. Executive Summary
“Combining the best of Bitcoin, Ethereum, and beyond
to ensure the long-term viability of the DMD Diamond blockchain.”
Being one of the oldest projects on the cryptocurrency market, DMD Diamond has
undergone several significant changes in its architecture as a response to the constantly
changing and evolving technology and market conditions. This document describes the
latest upgrade of the DMD Diamond v4 blockchain, designed to solve the greatest industry
challenges through combining the best of Ethereum, Bitcoin, and other worlds.
DMD Diamond v4 is an independent blockchain with full-stack integration of application,
networking, governance, and consensus layers for building, deploying, and running
general-purpose and interoperable decentralized applications in a fast and low-cost manner.
By utilizing a mix of Honey Badger Byzantine Fault Tolerance consensus algorithm (HBBFT)
and the delegated Proof-of-Stake based validator election (POSDAO) protocols, DMD
Diamond v4 has become the first blockchain to implement ​cooperative consensus with a low
carbon footprint, fast transaction times (approx. 400 tx/s (transactions per second))​1 and low
fees.
The DMD coin — one of the oldest cryptocurrencies on the market — maintains its original
fixed-issuance coin emission model and remains five times more scarce than Bitcoin with a
finite supply of just 4.38 million coins. DMD is one of a very small number of coins, including
Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Peercoin, that have survived from the inception (2013) to now and that
are still actively supported and traded.
DMDv4 is also the first blockchain that implements sustainable endless coin rewards for
consensus nodes and dPOS stakers while maintaining a coin maximum by utilizing a new
mechanism that reinserts unclaimed and abandoned coins into circulation after a number of
years. This mechanism is designed for the long-term limitless growth of the networks and
prevents a possible imbalance within scarce-supply coin ecosystems. (More Details in
section 5 and 5.5)
Moving with the progress of the industry, the DMD Diamond team has implemented changes
that allow interoperability between DMD and other blockchains, using an addressing
structure and smart contract engine that allows interoperability and cross-chain movement of
values and messages. The “coin wars” are over and it is an industry-wide imperative to
create stability and interoperability among the coin and token holders across the
cryptocurrency industry. For that reason, DMD is creating strong interoperability capabilities
with other Ethereum-based projects (Open Ethereum, POA Networks, xDAI, Artis.eco,
lab10.coop, etc.).
The DMDv4 coin development represents the first step towards a DAO (Decentralized
Autonomous Organization)​2 as the change is based on a vote taken among the DMDv3
holders, creating a democratic process. DMDv4 is a newly developed chain that will replace
DMDv3 and that includes the capacity to add on-chain governance mechanisms that will be
deployed in versions 4.1 and beyond.

1

We expect that even more is possible which is to be checked during the alpha tests so the White
Paper will be updated after new performance tests.
2
https://www.investopedia.com/tech/what-dao/

3

2. Background
2.1 Industry challenges
The cryptocurrency industry has delivered on its promises of the store of value and privacy
of digital assets. However, the technology has also faced a number of issues that all modern
blockchains have to address. The following are the challenges that are most critical to
address in the industry today.
●

Proof-of-Work is not adequate for fast and low-cost transactions.

●

Current transaction times take minutes and in the worst case, hours. For real-time
purchases, this is simply inadequate for a viable system.

●

Security issues are major concerns in the industry. In 2019 there were 94
cryptocurrency hacks, according to Cointelegraph​3​.

●

New developments have been made in BFT (Byzantine Fault Tolerance)​4 and
other security solutions.

●

Blockchains that want to provide themselves and the hosted projects with highly
customizable on-chain logics need to support smart contracts.

●

Big coin holders are often not involved as guardians of the network and are not
incentivized to act as such.

●

On-chain governance is aligning the values of participants in the networks.

●

Many blockchain systems miss a true sustainable coin economic setup ready for
centuries. A truly sustainable ecosystem needs to be built around a limited
resource developed in a way that the resource can be “recycled” or is “renewable”
(e.g. grows new at the same speed as it’s used up).

●

Competitive consensus blockchains have limitations on minimum block times and
instant finality of transactions.

●

Interoperability is becoming important as the industry matures and consolidates
around a shared mission to create financial inclusion worldwide.

The DMD Diamond team has always been committed to maintaining the best technology
and ensuring that the coin holders are protected and that the DMD chain gains momentum
and utility in the industry. As such,
the current implementation addresses these
opportunities and challenges.

3
4

https://cointelegraph.com/news/report-blockchain-related-hacks-have-declined-in-2020
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byzantine_fault

4

2.2 The DMD Diamond History
The DMD Diamond coin was created in mid-2013 during an explosion of new coin creation,
based on forks of Bitcoin. DMD launched as a limited-supply Proof-of-Work (PoW) and
Proof-of-Stake (PoS) coin, which already represented an advantage over the competition,
but at the time the code for staking wasn’t mature. Despite the initial enthusiasm for the coin,
the original creator of DMD disappeared several months after the creation of the coin, which
theoretically could have ended badly with the community being disgruntled by the sudden
departure of the developer leaving unresolved software issues behind.
Instead, a small community convened, discussing the future and the potential on the
Bitcointalk forum. The name of the coin appealed to people, as well as the implicit scarcity
and the fairness of the limited coin issue. As a result, a small team of developers and
enthusiasts got together to maintain and evolve the code and adjust the vision for the coin,
and in April 2014, with the release of DMDv2, the coin’s staking algorithm was made stable
and worthwhile for network participants.
The survival of the coin and the willingness of a community of enthusiasts to continue to
support this project made DMD stand out from other coins. Such disappearances and
pump-and-dump schemes were common — the difference was that the community rallied
around the coin and continued to uphold the value of the coin. At that time, smart contracts
were not yet available — however, there was an ideological underpinning to the release of
currency that was supported by regular people seeking financial independence and security
from the authorities and debt-backed government money systems.
Sprouting from the community was a group of leaders and developers who were determined
to create a sustainable blockchain, stewarded by people who are willing to continue to take
responsibility for the project over the long haul, without compromise. The team of stewards
of DMD Diamond was determined to create a store of value that they themselves felt
comfortable holding. The name Diamond represents scarcity, unshakable strength, and
value.
With hard work and a dedicated community, DMD Diamond remained in the top 100 coins
on Coinmarketcap throughout boom and bust cycles until only recently. Naturally, the
technology was superior to Bitcoin because of the later development and the vision has
continued to attract a group of faithful holders who recognize the scarcity of the coin and the
integrity of the team as essential for the long-term health of the project.
The strength of DMD Diamond is not only its vision and principles but the devotion to
constant evolution. Technology evolves quickly, but most blockchains are designed in ways
that are doomed to be stuck with their initial technological decisions, constraining them in
ways that prevent adaptation. DMD is sometimes called the Phoenix of Crypto, because the
ability to upgrade (reincarnate like the legendary Phoenix) is part of the project vision, as
illustrated with the current technological advances of DMDv4.
DMDv1 combined the best from Bitcoin, Litecoin, Novacoin, Luckycoin, and Florincoin, a mix
of industry-first blockchain solutions with Proof-of-Work/Proof-of-Stake algorithms for
network security. DMDv2, which was based on Mintcoin, repaired the PoS algorithm, and
redefined the coin rollout from static rewards with a short emission period of eight years to a

5

schema with decades-long, constantly decreasing inflation. At the time, eight years seemed
like a long time in the industry as a whole, but we recognized that such a trajectory was
short-sighted. Therefore, DMDv3 continued following the network reward reduction curve in
an improved, smoother, more natural way.
DMDv4 is being built with additional
sustainability mechanisms and lost coin retrieval for even longer-term trajectories.
With the outbreak of organized ASIC attacks on PoW networks, DMD abandoned the
previously used Scrypt algorithm, which was also used in Litecoin. At that time the first
specialized hardware was developed that made GPU mining senseless, and DMD switched
to Groestl, which was ASIC resistant at that time. This was a revolutionary feat: the world’s
first successful algorithm change that preserved existing legacy blockchain. It allowed the
coin holders to retain their balances and history of past transactions, without the need to
take any additional steps. It also allowed ordinary people to keep mining and participating in
a fair and wide distribution of coins.
When Masternode technology emerged as a potential platform for bringing Diamond closer
to its goals by improving both functionality and utility value of the coin, DMDv3 moved to a
third-generation PoS protocol, to mitigate some of the security shortcomings of previous PoS
algorithms. The requirement to participate proactively in network security resulted in
Diamond blockchain’s becoming healthier and more robust.
However, the promise of Masternodes did not pan out as we hoped for: it maintained the
same limited set of services including coin mixing, reduced minimum confirmations, and
voting over proposals, whereas DMD was aimed at evolving into a blockchain for hosting
multiple services and projects. Thus, since 2016, the team has been researching alternatives
to decrease transaction times and maximize throughput while reducing the environmental
damage potential of the blockchain. Now with version DMDv4, we are realizing the vision of
a cooperative consensus (HBBFT Honeybadger) blockchain combined with a dPOS node
election decentralization mechanic (POSDAO). This allows us to reach rapid throughput
thanks to the advances in asynchronous consensus protocols and the inclusion of smart
contract capabilities combined with a high degree of compatibility with the Ethereum
ecosystem which creates fertile ground for business creation.

6

Table 1: The Evolution of DMD Diamond

DMD Diamond v1

●
●
●
●
●

Blockchain codebase – (*Bitcoin)
Hybrid PoW/PoS – (*Peercoin)
Scrypt mining algorithm – (*Litecoin)
Random superblocks – (*Luckycoin)
Transaction messages – (*Florincoin)

DMD Diamond v2

●
●
●
●

Fixed PoS issues – (*Mintcoin).
Changed mining algorithm to Groestl (*Groestlcoin).
Removed superblocks for security concerns.
Changed coin economic setup from an 8-year to a 40+ year timeframe.

DMD Diamond v3

●

Changed from PoW/PoS to PoS/Masternode technology
– (*DASH,*PIVX).
Removed transaction messages.

●
DMD Diamond v4

●
●
●
●
●

Changed blockchain codebase from Bitcoin to Ethereum (*Open
Ethereum).
Added HoneyBadger BFT consensus (an industry first mainnet
implementation in Ethereum codebase family (*POA Network,*original
HBBFT research paper https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/199.pdf)).
Added POSDAO validator election contracts. (*xDAI, *LUKSO)
Expanded coin economic system into a sustainable infinite timeframe
one that reinserts abandoned/unclaimed coins and fees (an industry
first).
Removed masternodes.

* Аs true believers of open source we credit the projects our implementations are based on
with more or less adaptation and adjustment by our own team towards the needs of the
DMD Diamond project.

DMD Diamond has always been known for its reputable team and constant development, as
well as the scarcity of the coin and the fierce loyalty of the coin holders. The move to
on-chain governance will finally set in motion the formal mechanisms that ensure that the
community truly owns the network and that DMD Diamond can continue to be reliable and
future proof.
This upgrade provides the value that was promised at the very beginning of the crypto craze
— a trusted coin that has long term viability and isn’t just a trading scheme that will need to
be replaced in the future. By building in its own governance and the capabilities for
upgrading itself, DMD stands out as a crypto project that takes a forward-thinking approach
to robustness and trust and follows the old-school logic of no ICO and no pre-mine, just a
purely open, decentralized, fully-featured blockchain.

7

2.3 The HoneyBadger BFT Consensus Algorithm
To meet the market demands of speed and security, the DMD team has analyzed different
consensus algorithms available today including one of the most promising developments,
the Honey Badger Byzantine Fault Tolerant consensus algorithm.
The Honey Badger Byzantine Fault Tolerant (HBBFT) consensus algorithm​5 was developed
in 2016 by Andrew Miller, Yu Xia, Kyle Croman, Elaine Shi, and Dawn Song specifically to
address the issues of slow transaction times and the difficulties of having synchronous
communication on a large global network. After extensive research, the DMD Diamond team
has determined that using HBBFT will dramatically increase the efficiency and improve the
security of the DMD blockchain.
Advantages of moving to the HBBFT include:
●

Improved security for Byzantine Fault Tolerance.

●

Immediate transaction approval, with no need to wait for synchronous approval.

●

A dramatic increase in transactions per second, at least 400 TPS.

●

Increasing popularity with implementations in the Helium blockchain​6 and xDAI
(upcoming)​7​Artis.eco (upcoming).

●

Increased robustness of the blockchain.

●

Elimination of the ability to fork the protocol and elimination of the problem of orphan
blocks in the chain.

●

Identification and elimination of malicious nodes.

●

Ability to implement dynamic block times.

A more detailed discussion, including references to additional reading, is described in ​the
Honey Badger BFT Protocol section​.

5

https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/199.pdf
https://developer.helium.com/blockchain/consensus-protocol
7
https://www.xdaichain.com/for-validators/consensus/honeybadger-bft-consensus
6

8

3. DMD Diamond Solution
3.1 Mission
The fourth iteration of DMD Diamond is a cornerstone of a store-of-value monetary system
that is not government-issued or controlled. Our mission is to enable people to achieve
financial freedom and independence, by creating a platform that provides a safe, affordable,
and rewarding smart contract powered blockchain economy.
Our vision is to contribute to the blockchain ecology through the development of Open
Source protocols, utilities, and services, forwarding the interoperability of blockchains, thus
increasing the viability of the entire cryptoverse.

3.2 Features and Benefits
To address the industry challenges, the DMD Diamond team presents version 4 of its
blockchain. DMDv4 is the first cooperative consensus blockchain with a delegated
PoS-powered validator election which allows for high speed and performance, absolute
censorship resistance and fork resistance, instant finality of transactions, and other
advantages that cannot be delivered by a competitive consensus.

9

Table 2: Cooperative consensus vs. competitive consensus

DMDv4
(underlined text is
what DMD v4 uses)

Cooperative consensus

Competitive consensus

HBBFT

PoW

PoS

dPoS

Energy wasted

Minimal

Country-size

Village-size

Minimal

Fork resistance

No forks possible

Medium resistance, reorgs needed

Finality of
transactions

Each block is final

After many blocks

Censorship
resistance

Absolute via threshold
encryption

Good once in a block, but can require multiple tries
as the block producer can censor the block content

Random number
generation

Random and protected
via threshold encryption

Exploitable: the block producer can decide not to
generate a block if he doesn’t like the random part

Decentralization

*Low with a static set of
validators

Medium
because of
big mining
pools

Dynamic block
times

Yes, allows the next block
creation to start after 1
sec.

Not possible because competitive consensus needs
static block times (at least 15 sec, whereas most
systems need way higher: 1 – 10 minutes).

Performance

High with small set of
Low. As competing / forking blocks are possible,
active nodes and dynamic higher block times needed to avoid constant forks.
block times

Very good

*Medium, some nodes
are temporary
elevated via
votings/stake/random
elements to create
blocks

* To increase the decentralization of HBBFT we did choose to expand it with a dPoS based
node election mechanics powered by POSDAO.

The DMD v4 blockchain adds the smart contract functionality and sets out to align with the
industry as it is: the coin wars are over and blockchain interoperability is important for the
entire industry. Therefore, DMDv4 is compatible with Ethereum EVM smart contracts,
making it simple to port smart contracts written for Ethereum towards DMD Diamond v4.
Diamond is also designed so that it can be a participant in future blockchain-based
ecosystems that utilize bridges and other cross-chain value transaction methods. The aim is
to provide every participant with maximal freedom to host projects on the platforms that best
apply to their needs. The DMD blockchain answers many of those needs, and other
blockchains are part of answering specific needs for other developers and participants.

10

To sum it up, The list of DMD Diamond v4 features includes the following important
capabilities:
●

Limited issue of tokens, with a low cap of 4.38 million tokens, with full issuance of all
tokens at genesis block, with no ability to mine any additional tokens or dilute the
existing amount of coins in any way.

●

Smart contract capabilities with Turing-complete programming language.

●

Instant finality of all transactions using the Honey Badger BFT protocol.

●

Fast throughput: predictions and testing demonstrate a minimum of 400 TPS.

●

Rotating validation nodes, and maximum validation node staking allows for a
randomized distribution of power among validators for 12 hours (Epoch), no
concentration of power, and fair rotating.

●

Censorship-resistant, utilizing threshold encryption. Single nodes cannot act
maliciously against particular transactions because they cannot see the contents of
the transaction until it is validated.

●

DMD staking happens with a limited set of validator nodes, and a maximum amount
staked on top of these nodes because of DMD’s scarce supply.

●

Interoperability and full compatibility with other blockchains: Code written for
Ethereum EVM will run on the DMD v4 blockchain enabling easy migration between
chains.

●

Fork-proof, with 2/3 majority required, and no opportunity for a dispute of the chain.

●

No orphan blocks resulted from simultaneously created competing blocks are
possible on the chain, because of its cooperative protocol with fractional transactions
contributed by active validators threshold encrypted to the block.

●

On-chain governance​support with upgrade 4.1.

●

Random number generation capabilities built-in.

●

No wasted network capacity. If there are no transactions, no empty blocks are
created as with other blockchains. DMD may include a very small heartbeat block if
for periods of time of more than 10 minutes there are no transactions.

●

Recovery of lost coins through a fair aging mechanism that identifies abandoned
coins in POSDAO after a number of years.

●

Sustainable long-term coin and ecosystem maintenance and issuance.

11

3.2 Interoperability and Migration for DApps
DMD Diamond has taken the approach that cooperation and interoperability across chains is
a must for the sustainable and long-term development of the crypto industry.
For that reason, the DMDv4 is being created as a system that is fully compatible with
Ethereum, using Open Ethereum addressing systems and foundations, and running EVM
apps according to the protocol standards. The result is that dApps can be easily migrated
across chains.
Open Ethereum Client (formerly Parity) is included as part of the package for DMDv4. This is
the most well-known and fastest Ethereum client and is robust and well-proven in the
industry.
Interoperability Bridges provide connectors to other chains, allowing the transfer of value
across coins and other blockchains. DMDv4 allows easy integration by using third-party
Layer 2 interoperability solutions that support DeFi apps and other apps that integrate smart
contract functionality with multiple different crypto assets. Connectors allow access to
games, NFT, DeFi, and other types of dApps across chains.
8
Other solutions can interact with or run on DMD in the future. For example via TokenBridge​
Arbitrary Message Bridge (AMB) — a bridge designed for universal cross-chain data transfer
— that could potentially allow integration with other chains in the future. The idea behind
these bridges is to allow smart contracts from one blockchain to understand and interpret
smart contracts from other chains so that they can work together on different types of dApps
or communicate across dApps.

Such solutions allow for migration of fee intense parts or whole DeFi protocols, or
decentralized exchanges, or similar projects to run partly or as a whole on DMD Diamond
blockchain and still able to move assets back to other chains, for example, Ethereum.

3.3 Smart Contract Support
DMDv4 will include smart contract support based on EVM so that existing smart contracts
developed on other chains can run on DMD. DMDv4 supports Solidity and the other
languages that are supported by the Ethereum blockchain.
Because of the much faster transaction times, lower fees, the ability to run the same code on
multiple chains, and easy smart contract migration back and forth, DMD represents an
appealing alternative to Ethereum. DMD Diamond is a long-running blockchain with a highly
distributed community of holders, meaning that it is a very secure and stable network, so
application developers can feel comfortable with using DMD as a fast-throughput alternative
to Ethereum.

3.4 Secure Consensus
DMDv4 is a decentralized multipurpose blockchain with a highly secure and distributed
consensus algorithm and a distributed system for rewarding the nodes that secure the
8

https://docs.tokenbridge.net/
​

12

system. Diamond has an old community with many coin holders and uses delegated
Proof-of-Stake so that every coin holder can be part of the validation mechanism and cast
their weight to the validators that are acting in good faith on the system.
The DMD network allows any full node with 10,000 DMD to become a validator candidate,
and for any coin holder with at least 100 DMD to stake their coins on validator candidate
nodes. In this way, coin holders can signal the nodes they trust most to be reliable/stable
and increase by adding coin weight on them the chance to get selected to be part of the
active validator set more often. The maximum DMD per node is 50,000 DMD, either held by
the node or staked by DMD coin holders. Up to 438 nodes are possible, based on the
amount of DMD in circulation.
Validation rotates among the validation candidates, with 25 being picked randomly every 12
hours, called Epoch. During the Epoch, the validator nodes use the Honey Badger Byzantine
Fault Tolerance consensus protocol to validate transactions, and Epoch rewards are
distributed equally among nodes. The distribution algorithm is weighted such that every node
will get chosen to be in the Validator Set in proportion to the amount of staking on the node.
To find more information about validation, read the ​Node Selection through POSDAO
section.
This system is designed such that:
●

Validator Candidate Full nodes secure the system: 438 maximum, 50 – 75 expected.

●

A highly distributed system where a random subset selection of 25 active validators
is made every 12 hours via POSDAO dPOS mechanic, so all validators candidates
have a chance to get a turn twice a day. Note that if there are fewer than 25
candidates, the system can function with fewer validators too.

●

Coin holders can stake their coins on the nodes, showing support for the best
candidates, which weights the choice and ensures that validator nodes that are more
reliable are chosen more frequently.

●

Epoch rewards get split equally at the end of the Epoch between all active validators.
Each validator then split his share proportionally between the coin owners who
staked upon this validator. Misbehaving validators get no rewards at all, their coins
get locked and they cannot become a part of the active set during a few Epochs.

●

HBBFT consensus algorithm allows fast/instant final transactions, high transaction
throughput, and increased security of the system via threshold encryption.

The details of the network are described in the ​Network Participants and the ​Nodes and
Network participants sections​.

3.5 Network Participants
3.5.1 Coin Holders & Wallets
Any coin holder on the DMD network can stake their tokens on validators to earn Epoch
rewards and to vote when governance decisions become available in versions DMDv4.1 and
13

onward. The staking will be available from a web-based dApp accessible for anyone with a
wallet that supports a custom Ethereum style network and WalletConnect​9​, such as
Minerva​10​, Metamask​11​, or MyEtherWallet​12​. Anyone with DMDv3 must upgrade to a new
wallet and claim DMDv4 as described in ​the Migration from DMDv3 to DMDv4 section,​ and
then they can easily participate in the securing and governance of the network.

3.5.2 Validators
DMD Diamond v4 utilizes validators for the transactions, as per the HBBFT protocol. Each
elected (active) validator receives an equal share of Epoch rewards for cooperative
contributing to block creation and validating the transactions and compute smart contract
executions on the DMD blockchain in a defined timeframe (one Epoch), each active validator
shares the rewards among themselves and their delegates. The validation process has been
described in detail in the ​Secure Consensus​section.
Block rewards for active validators and delegates on them are split proportionally according
to the number of coins staked for that validator. However, the minimum to the validator will
be 30% of the block reward. If the validator’s share of the staked coins is less than 30%, the
validator gets 30% and the rest 70% is distributed among the coin holders proportionally
according to their stakes.
Validator candidates require:
●

Full node installation of the DMDv4 chain on a Linux server with the DMD version of
Open Ethereum which include the DMDv4 extensions including HBBFT/POSDAO
and the proper configuration

●

Internet with Static IP address and a reliable 24/7 uptime.

●

Minimum collateral of 10,000 DMD (from validator candidate owner), maximum
50,000 DMD can be staked on one validator candidate (combined from the owner
and others who stake on top of his node).

●

Link to address of the node that delivers the work.

●

The validator candidate registration and collateral locking through the POSDAO
dApp.

Note that the node address is not the same as the address where the coins are coming from.
Validator candidates re-stake the coins they earn as rewards. Validator candidates and
dPOS stakers on top of them can adjust (deposit or withdraw) staked coins anytime (inside
the allowed range) and the change (transaction of coins) happens at the next Epoch (12
hours).
POSDAO whitepaper refers to validators and all dPOS staker on top of him as a mining pool.
DMD Diamond prefers the terminology validator candidate because no mining is conducted
in the DMD network and the word mining is misleading.
9

https://walletconnect.org
https://lab10.coop/projects/minerva-digital-wallets/
11
https://metamask.io
12
https://www.myetherwallet.com
10

14

Find more details on how POSDAO works and how validators are selected in the ​Node
Selection through POSDAO section​.

3.6 Governance
The DAO Governance module is a weighted voting module that allows validators to vote for
system changes, upgrades, and other proposals and optionally approve requested funding
from the DMD DAO governance funding pot.
Important: DAO Governance and POSDAO are different things. DAO Governance is a
manual smart contract powering the decision-making tool to vote over proposals, POSDAO
is an automated smart contract to support a fair and decentral election of active validators.
POSDAO is an essential part of Mainnet launch 4.0; DAO governance is part of the first
planned big upgrade 4.1.
Only validator candidates registered on the permissionless network can vote in the DAO, but
coin holders can stake their DMD token with any validator candidate they choose and
change their affiliation at any time, with the change taking place when the Epoch changes.
To stake, coin holders use a web interface or the interface of a compatible wallet that can
connect to a customized Ethereum-like network and interact with dApps via WalletConnect.
All voting and staking take place without the need for the full node. The validator votes on
behalf of all coins that are delegated to the validator. This way, distributed governance is
enabled through delegated Proof-of-Stake.
All proposals and voting are public and transparent. This is important so that participants can
delegate their stake to the validators that are voting aligned with their interests.

3.6.1 Proposal cycles
The proposals submitted to the DAO will be discussed ongoingly and any community
member can participate in the discussion. There will be a fee associated with submitting a
proposal for a vote to avoid malicious attempts to disrupt the process with spam requests.
Proposals of any type can be accepted: code changes, requests for funding, or any type of
written proposals to the community. On a regular monthly basis, the validator candidates will
take a vote on the open proposals and funds will be allocated from the DAO pool
accordingly. The monthly cycle will allow 2 weeks of deliberation and feedback and 2 weeks
for voting.

3.6.2 DAO Voting Change Decision by Validator
Validators are able to change their decision. Delegates should monitor their validator voting
behavior and to switch to a validator that doesn't change his opinion at the last minute. We
encourage validators to make decisions early and stick with them, in order to attract further
delegates who search for predictable voting results. Validators are encouraged to vote early
in order to display their opinion by voting for an option in a proposal. Delegates are
encouraged to stake their funds on active validators that vote according to their preference.
It is possible to change a vote during the 14-day voting period and the change will be
transparent — so validators are encouraged to explain why they change the vote to provide
that those who staked should have a chance to either agree or move their stake to another
15

validator. Delegates whose validators are inconsistent in their voting behavior are likely to
switch to another validator.

16

4. Technology
4.1. The Components of DMD Diamond v4 Blockchain
The DMDv4 is based on an Open Ethereum node client software with EVM abilities
customized by the DMD team. The team has added the ability to support the implementation
of the Honey Badger Byzantine Fault Tolerant consensus protocol combined with the
implementation of a POSDAO, a dPOS-like mechanic to choose the active validator nodes
that create a higher level of decentralization than fixed consensus node protocols. The
repository for DMD can be found on GitHub​13​.
Diamond DMDv4 uses a suite of technologies that integrate the latest proven technologies,
allowing for fast transaction times, full smart contract support, and on-chain governance. In
this version of DMD, coin holders can take part in the governance and staking mechanisms
without running a full node as described in the ​Network Participants section.​
The components of the DMD blockchain include:
●

Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) based on Open Ethereum is responsible for
executing the smart contracts. See the Bytecode article for more information about
the EVM​14​.

●

A smart contract language code used by programmers is used to create smart
contracts. DMDv4 is a Turing-complete solution that allows the development of any
kind of dApp that can be supported on the blockchain. The DMDv4 supports Solidity
and the other languages that are supported by the Ethereum blockchain.

●

Node selection, in this case, is based on POSDAO for the selection of nodes for
validation in HBBFT. The core code is a set of smart contracts that determines the
default functionality of the DMDv4 blockchain. The POSDAO is what makes the
blockchain work true decentral by random rotation of power, staking upon different
validators and distributing rewards between the active participants, both stakers and
validators.

●

When the DAO Governance structure is implemented, POSDAO supports it via
providing the voters’ weight (total staked coins on a validator candidate) which allows
the coin holders to vote for (and potentially have automated implementation of)
changes such as block gas limit and minimum gas fees and similar changes in the
network.

●

The consensus mechanism, in this case, the Honey Badger Byzantine Fault Tolerant
(HBBFT) protocol, determines the transaction validation rules. HBBFT is used in
combination with a POSDAO election of nodes for distributed and secure transaction
validation.

13

https://github.com/DMDcoin
https://www.bitrates.com/guides/ethereum/what-is-the-unstoppable-world-computer#:~:text=The%20
Ethereum%20Virtual%20Machine%20(EVM,then%20compiled%20to%20EVM%20bytecode
14

17

●

Open Ethereum full nodes serve as nodes responsible for creating transactions,
writing data to the chain, executing contracts, and communicating with other nodes
on the network.

●

Compatibility with Browser or APP clients which manage user keys to interact with
the blockchain and may provide additional blockchain-based services including
swapping, NFT mechanics, self-sovereign identity, etc. These clients with
WalletConnect ability allow the interaction with the POSDAO smart contract and its
graphical user interface dApp.

18

4.2 Node Selection through POSDAO
The Proof-of-Stake Decentralized Autonomous Organization (POSDAO) algorithm is
designed to create a decentralized consensus for public blockchains, based on a voting
mechanism to elect the active nodes (validators) that participate in block creation. POSDAO
provides a leaderless structure that incentivizes validators to act in the best interests of the
network.
The following picture shows the leaderless block authoring architecture, with POSDAO
selecting the validators, and then the validators approving the transactions and receiving the
Epoch rewards.
Pic.1: Staking, Validation, and Rewards in DMD Diamond v4

DMD uses HBBFT as a cooperative consensus algorithm to overcome the issues of slow
transaction time and limitations of competitive consensus protocols, but HBBFT requires a
low maximum of 25 validator nodes (in the DMD implementation) to take advantage of these
improvements. However, the permanent distribution of power in a network of 25 static nodes
is not adequate. To solve this, DMD uses a POSDAO implementation in order to select the
nodes that will act as active validators every Epoch that runs 12 hours. By electing a new
subset from the candidate nodes every Epoch, POSDAO allows for the distribution over any
number of validator candidates, both maintaining the speed of the network and creating a

19

fairly distributed mechanism of securing the system and earning rewards. Note that chances
of being selected are increased for nodes that are most trusted, represented by the number
of coins staked on top of them.
In DMD, a cap of 438 validator candidates possible because of the scarcity of the DMD
coins. These caps contribute to the fairness and the speed of the network. Based on the
current network activity, Diamond DMD expects approximately 50 – 75 active validator
сandidates competing for the active Epoch set.
A maximum staking ceiling of 50,000 DMD ensures that there is no possibility to buy one’s
way in or collude to become more powerful than other validators on the network. The
maximum staking amount also makes sure that even candidates with a minimum stake of
10,000 DMD have a chance to get into the active set and POSDAO dPOS stakers can
increase that chance by supporting smaller candidates via staking on them.
POSDAO is a highly secure mechanism with protections against breaches, outlined in detail
in the POSDAO whitepaper​15​. Participants stake coins to protect the network via electing
reliable and stable nodes to take part in the active HBBFT consensus Epoch. Staking tokens
allows the participants to earn rewards and take part in on-chain governance.

4.3 Consensus Mechanism
4.3.1 Lightweight Consensus Mechanism
The move from Proof-of-Work to a lightweight consensus mechanism is an essential
improvement in blockchains and is being undertaken in the Ethereum network as well as in
newer blockchains. Proof-of-Work is reliable but it has proven inappropriate for the long-term
health of blockchains for three reasons:
●
●
●

high carbon footprint;
potentially limited throughput;
and high transaction costs.

For all these reasons, DMDv4 adopts a PoS protocol. To learn more about the energy
efficiency of PoS versus PoW blockchains, read the Artis blog article that shows the
numbers that are relevant for DMDv4 as well​16​.
PoW protocols require specialized hardware requirements for running a hardware node,
particularly because of the competition to make an income from mining. Without specific
mining equipment expertise and very cheap electricity, it’s impossible to become profitable.
Staying profitable in the PoW mining world means rapid hardware upgrades, increasing
waste, and environmental damage. Blockchains developed today no longer consider PoW to
be a viable solution. Proof-of-Work blockchains are notorious for their wasteful and
unsustainable energy consumption. For further reading see ​Bitcoin’s Growing Energy
Problem17​
​ and ​Decarbonizing Bitcoin​18​.
15

https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3368483
https://lab10.coop/blog/artis-energy-efficiency/
17
https://www.cell.com/joule/pdf/S2542-4351%2818%2930177-6.pdf
18
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214629618301750
16

20

Another disadvantage of PoW protocols, such as Nakamoto consensus, is that they do not
produce block finality. In other words, blocks may be mined at the same time by several
miners, resulting in a temporary dual-chain state. This can result in long waits before a
transaction is verified, high and static block times, and transactions can be removed
altogether if they only exist on the short chain. As a result, these blockchains are notorious
for the high incidence of forking due to this competitive consensus algorithm. DMDv4
prevents forking by completely eliminating this problem by utilizing a cooperative consensus
which allows dynamic extreme low block times if there is a demand on the network and long
times without blocks if there is no demand.
Instant transaction finality is a particularly critical feature for high-value financial systems,
such as exchanges and other DeFi applications. For developers of any type of finance
application, this feature makes DMDv4 superior to other blockchains.
In Proof-of-Stake, anyone in the network can participate in the network security and
governance, and PoS is being used in more recent blockchains, but PoS is still a competitive
algorithm and it doesn’t guarantee the performance that the Diamond DMD team was
seeking. Therefore, DMDv4 uses the Honey Badger BFT protocol which achieves
consensus without competition, sharing rewards among validators, again making this a more
distributed and democratized network. The combination of HBBFT with the validator
selection mentioned above is the key to achieving high performance and highly distributed
governance without any trade-offs or compromises.

4.3.2 Honey Badger BFT Protocol
DMDv4 includes the adoption of the best-proven consensus algorithms to date, the Honey
Badger Byzantine Fault Tolerant (HBBFT) protocol.
DMD Diamond v4 is implementing the HBBFT protocol for faster throughput, higher security,
dynamic block times, robustness, and elimination of orphan blocks and forking potential.
HBBFT allows nodes in a distributed environment to use an asynchronous methodology to
reach consensus on transactions.
As stated in the Honey Badger BFT whitepaper​19​: ​“In fact, Bitcoin provides terrible
performance by distributed systems standards: a transaction takes on average 10 minutes to
be committed, and the system as a whole achieves throughput on the order of 10
transactions per second. … the demand for robustness is often closely related to the
demand for decentralization— since decentralization would typically require the participation
of a large number of diverse participants in a wide-area network.”
With Honey Badger BFT, block finality is immediate, and transactions can be confirmed
within seconds. No mining is necessary to run HBBFT, and the protocol requires a small
pool of validators. DMDv4 uses a subset of 25 active validators that are selected from the
pool of all valid validator candidates every 12 hours (Epoch).
The ⅔ +1 validator threshold encryption (this means a stable over two-thirds majority of the
active validator set is needed (to wait on the last contributing (slowest) node is not required)
allows for very fast validation and low transaction fees. Rotating the validators as described
19

https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/199.pdf

21

in the ​Node Selection through POSDAO section ensures that there is no centralization and
that many full nodes in the network have the opportunity to serve as validators.
To get the complete details on HBBFT, read the original Honey Badger Byzantine Fault
Tolerance whitepaper as well as the following articles:
●

HBBFT Introduction​20​;

●

How HBBFT Works​21​;

●

Threshold Cryptography & HBBFT​22​.

4.3.2.1 The HBBFT Main Features
●

Asynchronous​, which is appropriate for a wide-scale global network.

●

Leaderless​, meaning that no one node has to declare a transaction. Instead, the
validating nodes each propose a fraction of the transactions, and all nodes author the
transactions simultaneously and share the block rewards.

●

Instant finality​, based on the asynchronous nature and the assumption that validator
nodes have reliable and secure direct connections.

●

Censorship-resistant​based on the consensus of all validators.

●

Random number generation built-in​. Because some of the functionality of the
consensus mechanism for the validation requires random number generation, the
HBBFT includes an easy way to generate random numbers, making the chain
particularly useful for applications that require random numbers.

●

No empty blocks are produced​. HBBFT approves blocks as quickly or slowly as
needed for the blockchain. In the DMDv4 implementation, we will include a heartbeat
if there is a long period (10 minutes) with no block production on the chain, but it will
be a very small transaction so as not to impact the size of the blockchain.

4.3.2.2. HBBFT Features to Guard Against Attacks
Even when there is heavy traffic, messages can be delivered asynchronously, so information
is not lost. Even if a malicious actor is trying to overload the network, or a particular dApp is
experiencing a spike for some reason, the network will continue to function, delivering
messages as it can.
Validators must reach an agreement on transactions while they are encrypted so that no
validator can censor particular messages. The contents of the transaction are decrypted only

20

https://www.xdaichain.com/for-validators/consensus/honeybadger-bft-consensus/building-honey-badg
er-bft-part-1
21

https://medium.com/poa-network/poa-network-how-honey-badger-bft-consensus-works-4b16c0f1ff94
22
https://www.xdaichain.com/for-validators/consensus/honeybadger-bft-consensus/honey-badger-bft-a
nd-threshold-cryptography-part-3

22

after consensus is confirmed, preventing malicious nodes from selectively approving
messages, because the validators can’t know what is in a transaction before they approve it.
Malicious nodes can be identified and are reported through a fault log. Networks can then
decide the best methods to remove them.

4.3.2.4 Instant Block Finality
The HBBFT protocol provides instant block finality. A block is only produced after the
transactions have been finalized by the validating nodes in the network. If a block is signed
by the validators, it is finalized, even if it is the latest block. This prevents transitory forking
and creates an immutable, immediate ledger of transactions.

4.3.2.5. Block validation
HBBFT relies on the following assumptions:
●

A secure connection between every agent performing a transaction.

●

Trusted nodes as reference points, so that agents can always refer to trusted
validators and full nodes as reference points​23​24​
​.

●

Agreement of 2/3 of the nodes for consensus, rather than 51%.

●

Unbounded buffers for nodes.

●

Approval of transactions does not have to follow a strict synchronous timing, as long
as the consensus threshold is reached.

●

Triggers for the consensus finding process are set with the blockchain
implementation.

Implementation of HBBFT requires a small number of validator nodes with persistent and
reliable secure connections between them. DMDv4 uses 25 validator nodes in an active set,
which rotate every 12 hours (Epoch). More details about validators can be found in the
Node Selection through POSDAO​section.
Triggers that are set in DMDv4 for block validation are:

23
24

●

Block agreement process​
: HBBFT consensus is based on a list of transactions
proposed by the acting validators. The validators collaboratively sign the block using
threshold signatures.

●

RNG (​R​andom ​N​umber) ​G​eneration​: HBBFT includes a mechanism for choosing
the validators using a secure random selection mechanism. This ensures that
validators are selected from the validator candidate pool in a fair and secure manner.
A nice side effect such RNG numbers can be used by other blockchain applications
that need true randomness without the need to have an own RNG engine.

https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/199.pdf
https://github.com/poanetwork/hbbft

23

●

Block validation​: Blocks sealed with a threshold signature need to be accepted, so
the current validator set needs to match the threshold signature with the validator set
master key.

●

Block creation​: New blocks are created as soon as the transactions for the previous
block are initiated, even if the full block was not approved yet by all validators. This
asynchronous immediate block creation mechanism translates into faster transaction
times.

●

Governance contract interaction​: OpenEthereum uses POSDAO to change the
validator set between Epochs, and reports malicious validator behavior if detected.

●

Validator set changes/key generation​: For the transition of the validator set,
threshold keys are generated on-chain for the new validators through a smart
contract.

●

Networking​: HBBFT requires direct contact between all validators in the active
validator set.

●

Network startup​: Items must be added to the chain specification so they are
included in the genesis block. This includes compiled governance contracts and the
public master key. In addition, corresponding key shares must be distributed to initial
network validators (this may be accomplished outside of the network) prior to network
start.

The one-second minimum block time is in fact a one second waiting time after a block is
finished before starting the creation of another block to minimize the delay between the
broadcast of a transaction and inclusion in the chain. When there is a heavy network load,
it’s possible that the block could take longer than 1 second, so there is no guarantee of
immediate processing of the block. In other words, the minimum threshold for starting a
block is 1 second. The maximum is 10 minutes because the chain creates a heartbeat block
if there are no transactions for 10 minutes.

24

4.4. Nodes and Network Participants
Diamond DMDv4 participants can potentially be one of three types:
●

Ethereum client wallet (participant)​. Any wallet that supports custom Ethereum
networks and Walletconnect allows DMDv4 token holders to participate in staking
and voting by choosing a validator candidate.

●

Full Node​. A full node includes an EVM, the POSDAO codebase, and the full
Diamond DMDv4 blockchain.

●

Validator Candidate Node​. A Full Node can become a Validator Candidate by
installing the validator candidate software and staking a minimum of 10,000 DMD.
Other coin holders can stake their coins on a validator candidate, up to a maximum
of 50,000 DMD. The upper limit prevents the concentration of power. Validator
candidates are chosen in every Epoch to be validators, in proportion to the amount of
staking they have on the node.

Nodes must run on the Linux operating system (or a System that allows execution of Linux
software (e.g. Windows subsystem for Linux). Read more on the validator requirements in
the ​Validators section​.
It is possible to hold DMDv4 coins without staking or participating actively in the network.

25

5. DMD Coin Economy
5.1. DMD Coin Features
The functions of the DMDv4 coin include:
●

On-chain governance.

●

Network security.

●

Payments.

●

Network fees and deployment of smart contracts.

●

DMD represents a limited and constant-size resource that has reward earning
abilities.

●

Earning rewards for active coin usage as a validator or dPOS staker aimed at
protecting the blockchain.

In addition, DMD is highly distributed, being held by a large number of smaller investors
rather than concentrated in the hands of a few. ​
Following is the distribution of DMD tokens
from Block explorer as of December 2020, showing the highly distributed nature of the token
25​
holdings, with less than half of the tokens being held by the top 100 people in the network​
.

Table 3: DMD coins distribution among holders

25

Top N addresses

Holdings

Percentage

Top 10

480,302 DMD

13.57%

Top 100

1,703,542 DMD

48.13%

Top 1000

3,445,514 DMD

97.35%

All 11160

3,539,236 DMD

100%

https://chainz.cryptoid.info/dmd/#!rich

26

5.2. Issuance of Tokens
Token issuance for the DMD coins has followed the original plan and continues on
the trajectory outlined in the original DMD Diamond White Paper​26​. DMD does not
issue coins based on an algorithm. Rather, all coins are created with the initiation of
the blockchain and they are allocated to the DMD coin holders on a one-to-one
basis. The total emission of DMD coins is 4,380,000.
Table 3: Block rewards and inflation

DMDv1 & DMDv2

July 13, 2013 –
August 2017

In its early days, DMD had a Hybrid POW/POS mechanic
to roll out coins and reward nodes securing the chain.
Around 50% of max coins were distributed in that first 4
years.

DMDv3 Phase1

September 2017 –
February 2018

Block rewards for blocks 0 – 115200 constant at 2.35
DMD.

DMDv3 Phase2

March 2018 –
August 2020

Block rewards for blocks 134400–691200 followed a
decreasing curve from 2.29 DMD per block to the current
rate of 0.55 DMD with the correlating decrease in the
inflation rate.

DMDv3 Phase3

September 2020

From Block 710400 till block 2284800 the reduction in
network rewards will slow down from 0.5 DMD to 0.157
DMD per block, while annual monetary inflation will fall
from 3.5% to 0.96% within that period.
Release of DMDv4 will freeze Phase 3. Undistributed
coins will be moved to the DMDv4 delta pot.

DMDv4

26

DMDv4 release 2021

The DMDv4 reward logic will recreate a similar curve for
roll out undistributed coins and add on top a unique coin
reinsert logic that allows for endless rewards even with a
small finite supply.

https://bit.diamonds/DMD_WP.pdf

27

Pic. 2: DMD Coins Rollout & Supply

DMD Diamond’s emission model was remodeled with the advent of the second iteration of
the core software in 2014. It implied ever-decreasing inflation from a steep 50% APR
progressively to around 1% in the years to come. The premise was based on block numbers
as signposts for when to introduce changes to the monetary supply. This made it clear and
intuitive when and how much the adjustment would have taken place.

28

​Pic. 3: DMD Diamond v4 Coin Reward Perpetuum Mobile
via Reinserting Not Claimed and Abandoned Coins

The coin rollout is the cornerstone of DMD’s monetary system, however, changes to the way
this new blockchain works and accounts change with DMDv4.
As a leaderless consensus, there are no blocks in a classical UTXO sense; transactions are
approved as fast as they come which makes it impossible to follow a model where block
numbers happen at a predefined time. The only predefined transaction is that if there is no
network traffic for 10 minutes, the blockchain emits a heartbeat transaction.
To stay true to the previously arranged coin emission there will be a new way of calculating
daily inflation and it ties to the way rewards are distributed among delegators and validators
from Epoch rewards that are funded by delta pot and reinsert pot and governed by a
sophisticated smart contract construct. More details can be found in ​Solving the Lost Coin
Problem​section.
DMDv4 release coincides with DMD going through Stage 3 of the emission model as
outlined in DMDv3 White Paper where issuance of network rewards slow down from 0.5
DMD to 0.157 DMD per block, while annual monetary inflation will fall from 3.5% to 0.96%
within the period of approximately 8 years.

5.3. Network initiation
At the release of DMDv4, all smart contracts are initiated in the genesis block, together with
information about bootstrapping validators. In order to start the network, a predefined
number of nodes must be selected to provide service for the duration of the initial staking
Epoch. That process requires a high degree of coordination, therefore the core team serves
as the technical enablers of this blockchain and will host a trusted set of DMD Diamond
Foundation nodes to launch the network.

29

There is no monetary advantage for initiating validators as their pools are empty while the
reward itself is lowered.
Registration to join the new network can take place during the initial Epoch with full
registration taking an effect at the next staking Epochs.

5.4. Migration from DMDv3 to DMDv4
All holders of DMDv3 can claim an equal amount of DMD for version 4. Claiming DMDv4
does not change anything on the DMDv3 chain, so it’s not technically a swap of the coins but
that the proof of ownership of DMDv3 entitles the address holder to claim the DMDv4 coins.
Following are the instructions for swapping the coins and the conditions of the coin swap.
●

Set up a wallet that can accept DMDv4. Any Ethereum-compatible wallet can accept
DMDv4. Minerva Wallet includes DMDv4 as one of its supported coins by default.

●

Use the DMDv3 to sign a validation that you are the owner of the DMDv3 coins.
Enter the address of your new wallet for claiming DMDv4 coins. The DMDv4 is sent
in a 1-to-1 ratio to the new wallet.

When DMDv4 is released, the DMD Diamond team will be releasing full documentation
including video documentation of how to claim the coins. Note that this is not technically a
swap, because the DMDv3 chain still holds the coins, but once your address has claimed the
DMDv4, it cannot be repeated with the same address again.
When you transition to DMDv4, you will also be able to stake DMD on validator nodes for the
purpose of earning coins for validation, as well as for voting on proposals in the DAO that will
govern the DMD chain. After the transition, the Diamond DMD team will no longer provide
any support for the DMDv3 blockchain. DMDv3 is open source, so it is feasible for anyone
who wishes to maintain the legacy code to do so.
To eliminate inactive users and lost coins, there will be a claiming period under which your
DMDv4 coins need to be claimed in order not to return to the pool of coins.
●

Claiming DMDv4 balance within 3 months of release entitles coin holders to the full
amount of coins, with 1 DMDv4 coin for every 1 DMDv3 coin owned by the coin
holder. The release of DMDv4 is at least 3 months after the release of this White
Paper. The rollout will include a trusted phase at the start to ensure that the first
validators on the network are known.

●

Between 3-6 months of release, DMDv3 coin holders can claim 75% of the coins.
The other 25% are returned to the coin pool as described in ​Solving the Lost Coins
Problem section​.

●

Between the 6th month and 5 years, DMDv3 coin holders can claim 50% of the coins
they originally held.

●

After 5 years, all leftover coins are redirected to the governance and reinsert pot and
the claiming period ends.

30

5.5. Solving the Lost Coins Problem (Previously Treasure
Digging)
All coins are created at the genesis block and put in different pools for distribution over time
through the blockchain rules of DMD. DMDv4 has four pots:
●

Claiming pot: The Claiming pot starts as the total amount of coins that should be
held by coin holders and are already allocated to the coin holders in DMDv3. At the
initiation of the chain, coins are sent directly to their owners as soon as they run the
claiming dApp tool to prove ownership of the old DMDv3 address and link it to their
new DMDv4 address. The remaining claiming pot is a 1-to-1 representation of all
coins that are waiting to be claimed by the DMDv3 coin holders.

●

Delta pot​: The delta is the coins that would have been generated between the
current issuance at DMDv3 snapshot and the maximum total coins of 4.38 million
DMD. These are the reserve coins that are released over time in DMDv4 as part of
Epoch rewards.

●

Reinsert pot: The Reinsert pot is funded with half of the coins that are abandoned
by being staked on an inactive validator node. Coins are recovered to the reinsert pot
under two circumstances: when people do not claim their DMDv4 coins and when
validators are inactive for 10 years. Validator nodes are closed if they are not active
for 10 years, so if someone stakes their coins on a validator node that has not been
active for 9 years, their stake will be reclaimed 1 year later — but it should be
obvious that someone should not stake coins on an inactive validator.

●

Governance pot: The Governance pot will be managed by a DAO. The pool is
funded by half of the lost coins that are not placed in the reinsert pot, and the coin
holders can create and vote on proposals for distribution of the coins. Voting on the
use of the Governance pot is weighted according to people’s coin holdings so that
the network will vote in the best interest of maintaining the value of the coins.

The block rewards that are allocated from the Delta and Reinsert pools are related to the
amount of funds in those pools. As the size of the pool reduces, the amount of DMD per
transaction will also reduce. Depending on the value of the coins at the time, this may or
may not represent a real change in the reward value for the validators.
Coins are recovered according to the following schedule:
●

If a DMDv3 holder does not claim their coins within 3 months of the DMDv4 mainnet
release, 25% of the coins are recovered and split between the Reinsert and DAO
pools. As of the publication of this White Paper, DMDv3 holders can claim their coins,
so in fact, they have 6 months from the date of release of the White Paper to claim
DMDv4.

●

If the DMDv3 holder does not claim their coins within 6 months of the release of
DMDv4, another 25% of the coins are recovered.

●

If the DMDv3 holder does not claim their coins in 5 years, all coins are recovered and
they lose their rights to claim DMDv4. This could happen intentionally if they decide
to stay with DMDv3 or if they are simply inactive.

31

●

If a validator candidate is inactive for 10 years, the staked tokens for the validator
nodes are recovered into the pools. Also, any delegated staked tokens for that
inactive validator are returned to the pool.

These mechanisms are sustainable over the long term to remove the problem of missing
coins, and also to continuously fund the DAO and the Reinsert pool.

5.6. Use of Funds
During the coin rollout, 10% of coins are used to fund the development. In addition, the DAO
is funded by 50% of the unclaimed coins in the transition from v3 to v4. The DAO funds will
be used to promote the DMD project, as voted on by the community members. Funds can be
used for chain upgrade developments, marketing, or any other activity that the coin holders
choose to fund based on proposals to the Governance DAO.

32

6. Roadmap
Table 5: The roadmap of DMD v4 release and future development
Stage

Date

White Paper

Description
DMD Diamond releases its v4 White Paper.

Open testnet

>= 1 month later

Open testnet starts with candidate release of DMD v4.

Claiming tool tests

Around the same
time

The claiming tool is being tested.

DMD v4 mainnet

>= 3 months later

DMD v4 mainnet is live.

DMD v4.1

DMDv4.1 core content will be on-chain governance
systems (DMDDAO) that interact with POSDAO for
voting weights.

Future goals are set and voted on by the stakeholders and DAO participants.
Possible future goals

● Message Bridge (AMB) development: A bridge
●

●

designed for universal cross-chain data transfer.
DEX or protocol for automated liquidity provision
with a positive impact on the DMD coin
economic model, with fees to reinsert pot and
bonus rewards for active stakeholders.
Any other suggestions initiated by the
community of stakeholders and validators.

33

7. Team
Aleksander Mesor, Chief Executive Officer
Leading the Diamond DMD Foundation for more than 7 years, Aleksander brings unmatched
dedication and passion to the project, as well as experience in operations, leadership, and
communications.
Helmut Siedl, Chief Visionary Officer
Leading the vision and research on the mechanics and technology of the coin, Helmut brings
impeccable attention to detail and deep research skills for assessing and adopting the best
technology for the DMD project. Helmut has been deeply involved in the blockchain space
for more than 7 years and is a co-founder of the lab10 and a founder of Blockserv
Blockchain Services, leading technology initiatives that create a freer society.
Thomas Haller, CTO
Bringing deep experience in software development and blockchain, Thomas provides
technical guidance for the implementation of the DMD technology.
Dr. David Forstenlechner, contributor
David brings more than 15 years of software development experience to the project as a
contributor.
Dietmar Hofer, contributor
An expert in complex software development projects, Dietmar brings his expertise to create
the most advanced blockchain technology features to the project.
Whitepaper Contributors:
●

Grace Rachmany

●

Aleksander Mesor

●

Helmut Siedl

●

Stacy Muur

●

Thomas Haller

Community Review Participants:
●

DrDMD (slack)

●

Knotwork (slack)

●

Digital_Demon (telegram)

●

WaddlingDuck (telegram)

●

gg (slack)
34

●

stillontop (slack)

●

dsoronda (slack)

●

panzerfly (slack)

●

Supermegatom (telegram)

●

Trimegistus (bitcointalk)

●

EXPose (discord)

●

dforsten (slack)

●

didi (slack)

●

MitchellMint (discord)

35

