WHITEPAPER | DRAFTCOIN

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BTCDraft is an e-sports and betting platform with a fully integrated cryptocurrency exchange
and a stiff focus on diversifying coin holder’s cryptocurrency portfolio. There are future plans to
build and host a fully functioning online casino and buying and selling of sports memorabilia.
The currency in which BTCDraft will trade with is our very own coin; Draftcoin, which can be
bought, sold and held on various exchanges, including our own, or on user’s personal wallets
held on their computers.

INTRODUCTION
2013 was a strange year for cryptocurrency. We saw the first serious bull market of Bitcoin;
raising the price of the coin into the stratosphere where it stood at $1000 for a few weeks. The
surge invited new people into the market that would not normally give the space a second
glance; and as we had a great era of innovation we also had an incredible amount of scam startups and time wasters. For those of you that do not know, a huge amount of cryptocurrency was
put into non-startups and people that had great ideas but lacked the passion and urgency to
see their projects through.
By 2014 as the market faded we were tired of watching our investments disappear to those
that really did not deserve the bitcoin we were giving them, and we decided to launch our very
own Project, Draftcoin.
Draftcoin was primarily designed to, for once, give power back to the investors and users of our
platform by building a real, viable, sustainable and ethical platform. We designed and built our
very own e-sports platform, internal exchange, and casino platform. The first of its kind built on
the blockchain. The emphasis on this is that we understand the unforgivingness of the
cryptocurrency markets, where it is normal that new users can lose a lot, if not all their
cryptocurrency if caution is not exerted. We wanted to safeguard this by giving users the
opportunity to earn more Draftcoin by competing in games and e-sports.
Too often are new platforms and ICOs unforgiving in their nature, and if you have sold all your
coins previously then it may be harder to gain them back should market prices increase. If you
look at cryptocurrencies valued in the hundreds of dollars there’s little to no opportunity to
‘earn’ them back except with a lot of money or a lot of electricity for mining. If you had 14
Bitcoins in 2015 then it would be incredibly hard, if not almost impossible to earn them back at
current prices.
Our goal is to make our platform sustainable with our Casino, whilst safeguarding losses by
encouraging losers to participate in competitive gaming and e-sports to earn their Draftcoin
back.

WHITEPAPER | DRAFTCOIN

As you work your way through this whitepaper you will gain insight into our vision and core
values that we wish to represent at every stage of our existence, you will begin to understand
that we value trust, openness and honesty above all else, and we are in this project for
everyone, and not just ourselves. We want everyone to win, whilst at the same time keeping
our project sustainable, with regular Draftcoin flowing back to the house. We encourage losers
to play more games to win more Draftcoin.
We expect to be faced with many challenges throughout our journey which we would like to
outline below

SKEPTICISM
We expect to be met with skepticism at first. If anyone has been involved with anything to do
with gambling previously then they will know that the house always wins in the end. The carrot
is dangled in front of a user’s face and they win just enough to want to win more back, until
finally, they have lost all their money. It is a horrible play system, but unfortunately this is the
way gambling works the world over. We expect newcomers, and especially people new to
cryptocurrency to be highly skeptical of a gambling system that claims to be ‘in it for the
people.’ We plan to tackle this these ways:

TRANSPARENCY, HONESTY, TRUST
As you can tell by our introduction, we are a team that has been horribly displaced in the past
by shady ICOs, anonymous infrastructures, and developers that have given up or lack the
foresight to fulfil their projects. We believe that the solution to this is by creating trust in our
domain. We plan to create trust by fostering a very transparent and honest rapport with our
community. Whilst most teams enjoy a certain amount of holding back from their users we
want to be as transparent as we possibly can within our legal requirements. By doing this it is
our hope that we can foster trust in our community through a long-term relationship of
delivering on our promises.

ENCOURAGING HEALTHY INVESTING HABITS
As a responsible gambling and e-sports platform, we plan reduce skepticism by encouraging
users to diversify their portfolios with their own cryptocurrency. That way new and volatile
users will learn to split what they earn or win into separate chunks of crypto, learn about other
projects, and limit their losses if one coin hits the floor. That way users will gain the insight to
practice healthier investment in the future. This will not be forced on users, but encouraged, as
we want our platform to act as a gateway into the cryptocurrency world for new investors.

WHITEPAPER | DRAFTCOIN

SUSTAINABILITY
As you have been reading through this I expect you have already wondered about the
sustainability of this project. We have talked about being ‘in it for the investors’ and our main
aims are to promote healthy investment and giving coins away to offset gambling losses
through gaming rewards. We plan to take a forward-thinking approach by implementing these
strategies:

INTEGRATED EXCHANGE
To encourage healthy investment
within our community we wish to
have a decentralized internal
exchange. Whilst we wish to have
investors and game-players mixing
with a wide userbase of coins; we will
collect fees on every transaction in
every currency and this will go back to
the house to support our current and
future aims

CASINO
A gambling platform would not be
complete without a Casino. We plan to
have a wide variety of games that our
community can engage with to win
prizes in Draftcoin. The loses, and fees
that we collect from this platform will go straight back into the house; thus, creating a feedback
loop of prizes for gaming, and losses on the Casino, fostering sustainability in the long term.

SPORTS BETTING
Along with our integrated Casino we plan to have sports betting. Players will be able to bet for
and against each other in competitive gaming, for which the house will collect fees on.

WHITEPAPER | DRAFTCOIN

LONGEVITY
The team is aware of ever evolving trends and fads. What was popular on our platform last year
may not be currently popular this year. People will grow tired of playing the same games
repeatedly and will want renewed and fresh gaming content on a regular basis. This can be
extremely expensive on our end, but we plan to offset this in several
ways:

INVITING GAME DEVELOPERS
We are a forward-thinking business and
want to invite new game developers to
participate with us in our vision. The
idea is that game creators will let us use
their games for a share in our platform.
For example, if 100 users play a creators
game on a day, then the developer will
be paid for a hundred usages. We
understand that game developers will
simply not ‘find us’ we will have to go
out there and actively promote to other
game companies our ideas and vision.
We will be doing this regularly and
aggressively.
REGULAR MARKETING
It is our aim to reach the people that
have not yet embraced the world of
cryptocurrency and either sit on the
fence or stay away from it due to the several thousand marketing emails that hit them through
their email inbox every month. We plan to contact large magazines, cryptocurrency websites,
and spaces that their audiences are unfamiliar with cryptocurrency. We plan to tackle
aggressively and begin to bridge a very large gap.
INTUITIVE WRITING
We want to reach everyone. And by that we mean everyone. We understand that there’s a
lacking space in cryptocurrency; we want to engage writers that are willing to take the technical
jargon out of a whitepaper; hoping to give people that wouldn’t necessarily understand the
technical fluff an idea of what we plan to do, whilst at the same time trying to reach hardcore
enthusiasts without losing any integrity of our explanations.

WHITEPAPER | DRAFTCOIN

About DRAFTCOIN
Draftcoin and BTCDraft was an idea founded in 2014 by several disgruntled crypto-enthusiasts.
The idea was taken forward to create a viable, sustainable, and ethical solution to scam ICO’s,
uninterested developers, and unknown hierarchical crypto-businesses.
BTCDraft provides users the opportunity to use their skills in games that focus primarily on the
knowledge of Arcade and Casino Games to earn and stockpile DraftCoin.
Integral to the very idea of BTCDraft is a new cryptocurrency designed specifically for our crypto
gaming platform. This will be used to play games on our website and bet in our sports betting
and casino; this coin is called DraftCoin and it will be identified with the ticker DFT. DraftCoin
will be paired with USD and as the price of Bitcoin fluctuates against USD, it will do the same
with DFT. To protect our users from currency value fluctuations, DFT will be fully tradeable
directly on Btcdraft.com, as well as many future cryptocurrency exchanges.
DraftCoin will be the first cryptocurrency to have a blockchain built on top of a gaming
platform. Along with using DFT as the gaming website’s native currency, we also plan to take
advantage of blockchain technology to store player statistics and high scores, and so provide
the most verifiable high score system possible, and a premium gaming experience to our users.
DraftCoin has proudly launched with NO ICO! 15 million out of total of 20 million DFT have been
mined and these last 5 million coins will be paid out to clients staking DFT in their personal
wallets. 10 million coins will be purchased and held offline, for use within our future Casino.
Once DFT is added as a tradeable currency on third-party exchanges, we will be buying back
available DFT to replenish the house’s supply. DraftCoin is a 75% pre-mined, PoS [Proof of
Stake] cryptocurrency used exclusively for our platform directly at www.BTCDraft.com / .ca
FDFT will be a Free version of DFT only available on site. All new users who register at
BTCDraft.com will receive this token. FDFT can be used to play games for free without risk. You
will be able to use FDFT in various locations within the site like purchasing raffle tickets to win
memorabilia or gift cards.

WHITEPAPER | DRAFTCOIN

