WHITEPAPER
Connectors and Toolkits on Blockchain
V 2.0.2

DREP WHITEPAPER

Important Notice
This document (the “Whitepaper”) has been prepared by DREP Foundation Ltd. (“DREP
Foundation”) and this notice is intended to address all readers who view or access it on any
communication channel or platform. The Whitepaper is presented strictly for information purposes
only, and shall not, under any circumstances, be treated as an offer of securities or an invitation to
participate in any regulated investment scheme, howsoever defined in any jurisdiction around the
world. In addition, none of the information contained herein is intended to form the basis of any
advice or inducement to engage in any sort of investment activity.
This version of the Whitepaper is released as a draft for discussion and pre- information purposes
only. This Whitepaper remains a work in progress and is subject to change without notice. Please
do not copy or disseminate any part of this document without including this disclaimer and the
section titled “Risks and Disclaimers”.
You are strongly encouraged to read the entire Whitepaper and familiarize yourself with all the
information set out below, particularly in the section entitled “Risks and Disclaimers”. Please seek
independent advice from your professional advisors, including lawyers, tax accountants and
financial advisors, if you have any uncertainty or doubt as to any of the matters presented.
Please take note that you are not eligible and you are not to purchase any tokens in the token sale
of the DREP Tokens by DREP Foundation (the “Token Sale”) if:
(a) you are located in the People’s Republic of China or if you are a citizen or resident (tax or
otherwise) of, or domiciled in, the People’s Republic of China;
(b) you are located in the United States of America or if you are a citizen, resident (tax or
otherwise) or green card holder of, or domiciled in, the United States of America;
(c) such token sale is prohibited, restricted or unauthorized in any form or manner whether in full
or in part under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules in any jurisdiction applicable to you, at
the time of your intended purchase or purchase of the DREP Tokens in the Token Sale.
The Chinese version of the Whitepaper is the principal official source of information for DREP
Foundation, if the content of the Whitepaper is lost, damaged or misinterpreted during the process
of translation or communication, especially when translated to other languages including this
English version, the Chinese whitepaper shall prevail in the event of any conflicts or
inconsistencies.
Please note that this Whitepaper will be updated continuously and you are encouraged to review
the Whitepaper on a regular basis.

2

DREP WHITEPAPER

Abstract
If the reason behind the commercialization of the Internet is due to an increase in information
connectivity, it can thus be foreseen that Blockchain Technology has the potential to surpass both
the Internet and Internet of Things as it possesses the ability to connect the “dots” - linking up
isolated islands of information via data cooperation systems. DREP is committed towards building
“connectors” and “toolkits” on blockchain technology, providing solutions that promotes the ease
of use, flexibility and frictionless integration.
Currently, blockchain adoption suffers from a state of segregation with data silos being huge
sources of inefficiencies. Furthermore, it has been observed that both the public and industry
chains had established a closed-loop ecosystem to maximize competitive advantages. As a result,
in order to increase users outreach, multiple versions of DApps (Decentralized Applications) have
to be developed for different public chains, thereby further increasing data fragmentation and
users segregation. In order to resolve this pain point, DREP’s proposes the use of Decentralized
ID (DID), cross-chain technologies and DREP’s Software Development Kit (SDK) to form the
basis of a “connector”, providing easier DApps deployment on multiple public chains with a
simplified process while promoting cross-chain data integration and data sharing privacy
protection with the use of homomorphic encryption.
As blockchain technology advances from whitepaper research papers towards real world
applications and mass adoption, enterprises often lack the technical know-how to fully capitalize
on the potential of blockchain technology. During this phase, regardless of whether it is an
infrastructure layer or application layer, in order to swiftly penetrate the market and resolve pain
points of data fragmentation, a highly productized solution is required. In this aspect, DREP’s
unique competitive advantage lies in the ability to develop a flexible and easy-to-use "toolkits"
that utilizes a customizable, two-tiered public chain architecture with advanced APIs and Plug-ins
support while catering to a number of vertical markets via the DREP SDK.
In summary, DREP’s vision for the blockchain industry is:




to allow commercialisation of Blockchain with high concurrency.
to deliver a personalised and seamless user experience for both businesses and
consumers along with flexible development.
to achieve commercialization of Blockchain technology for DApp and enterprise clients,
while seeking to eliminate data fragmentation by promoting high levels of connectivity
between data silos.

3

DREP WHITEPAPER

Defining DREP
DREP is committed towards building Connectors and Toolkits based on Blockchain
technology, providing solutions that promotes the ease of use, flexibility and frictionless
integration. With the technologies behind DREP Chain, ID, Reputation Protocol and SDK, DREP
aims to build an open data ecosystem thereby disrupting the current status quo of segregated users
and synchronizing fragmented data found on multiple chains.
With the progression of blockchain technology, there has been an endless supply of blockchain
projects entering the market. However, they are constrained by their existing infrastructure, and
thus only able to serve a small number of applications that are limited in scale and category. On
the other hand, large-scale enterprises are reluctant in applying blockchain technology to largescale commercial scenarios, complicating efforts to increase user adoption in the Blockchain
domain.
DREP, for those very reasons, strives to tackle three particular issues:




Poor performance and development experience of public chains.
Segregated public chain ecosystem and poor user adoption rate.
A mismatch between Blockchain technology being developed and enterprises’ needs.

DREP mainly provides the following technical solutions:


The DREP Chain is a high-performance public chain that was fully developed in house
by the DREP team. It is compatible with EVM and WASM Smart Contracts, and comes
with a dual-layer structure constituting of a root chain and customizable sub-chains.



The Smart Pipeline innovatively proposed by the DREP team is a "pipeline" for data
transmission and for transferring data between the blockchain virtual machine and
external applications. It is able to achieve data processing with high efficiency, zero gas
consumption and strong scalability keeping in mind of security considerations. The use
of Smart Contracts will not be able to achieve such outcomes.



DREP adopts a Schnorr Multi-Signature Algorithm that is based on the Secp256k1
elliptic curve to improve network efficiency and reduce transmission overheads.



To achieve data connectivity and privacy protection, DREP has designed a
Decentralized ID (DID) system based on HMAC (Hash Message Authentication Code)
algorithm, forming a dual-layer system of master ID and multiple sub-IDs. DREP Client
allows users to manage data and assets on centralized and decentralized platforms within
one interface.



To enhance data privacy protection, DREP Chain adopts the use of homomorphic
encryption to safeguard users’ sensitive information.



To provide an easy-to-use tool interface for B-end enterprises and provide an efficient
and frictionless service portal for DREP Ecosystem users, DREP launched a
comprehensive DREP Client integrating functions including asset management, identity
management, application development, and traffic portal.



To enhance the long-term holding value of DREP DID, DREP launched a reputation
system. This consists of a general reputation protocol, reputation pipeline interface,
reputation data storing and algorithm library, reputation incentive mechanism,
reputation account management and fake account identification mechanism, etc.



To lower the entry barrier and the cost of learning, DREP has developed API, Plug-ins
and SDKs for a number of vertical markets. With these toolkits, DApp development
teams can deploy on multiple public chains at the same time easily, with built-in wallets
and asset trading platforms. With DREP ID, the developers can also acquire users from
4

DREP WHITEPAPER

various public chain ecosystem, converting them into users and making Super DApps an
achievable reality.


DREP SDK adopts a service-oriented architecture, similar to Java's Spring container
development. In most blockchain project code, the modules are more coupled. Using
this approach, DREP allows the modules to be fully decoupled and the code can be
easily refactored with a clearer logic.

Before the DREP Mainnet is officially released, there will be four different iterations of the DREP
Testnets, representing important milestones of the development progress. It also represents the
continuous efforts by the team on the product and business development front. With constant
communications with enterprise partners, the team is able to act on feedback and explore
innovative solutions to eliminate pain points while optimizing user experiences.
DREP's four phases of Testnets are named after Darwin, Riemann, Euler and Planck respectively,
paying tribute to the achievements the four scientists had contributed in their respective domains
while symbolizing that the team will be on a continuous endeavor to enhance the project’s
technology development and commercial application:





Darwin
Riemann
Euler
Planck

The Evolutional Origin
The Breaking Point
The Eternal Method
The Constant Change

5

DREP WHITEPAPER

DREP Proposed Solutions
2.1 Poor Performance and Developer Experience of Public Chains
Performance, usually measured via the Transactions Per Second (TPS) benchmark, is one of the
key limitations restricting the adoption of public chains. Payment solutions conglomerate Paypal
currently is functioning on around 100TPS whereas Visa, the multinational financial services
1
corporation, is able to handle up to 2000TPS . In contrast, Bitcoin and Ethereum can only process
2
about 10 TPS . The difference in scalability between centralized and decentralized platforms has
hindered the growth of blockchain payments applications while also preventing the mass adoption
of payment DApps.
With the continuous development of DApps, the volume of data on chain has been increasing
rapidly, which resulted in a relentless inflation of resource overheads and has greatly restricted the
3
growth of public chain. Citing an example, EOS RAM’s utilization rate is currently around 62%
and has impacted the usability of several DApps built on the EOS platform. It is impossible to
4
solve concurrency issues solely relying on protocol layer Smart Contracts to store DApp data .
5

There’s also the issue of Scalability Trilemma , whereby decentralization, scalability, and security
requirements cannot all be satisfied with the existence of opportunity costs. This means that public
chains cannot improve on performance without forgoing some aspects of decentralization or
security. In view of this situation, DREP has proposed an alternative method to improve
scalability via the development of the “Smart Pipeline” technology, which is similar to a Layer 2
solution, to improve batch data processing capabilities.

2.1.1 DREP Smart Pipeline - Improving Data Processing Capabilities
The Smart Pipeline is an innovative blockchain application model proposed by the DREP team. It
can achieve high efficiency, zero gas consumption, and robust scalability without impacting
security, solving practical needs that could not be solved with the use of Smart Contracts.
While Smart Contracts are widely used on platforms such as Ethereum, issues such as low data
capacity, high gas consumption, and lack of active calling functions are often criticized by
developers, which negatively restricted the development of large-scale DApps.
The DREP Smart Pipeline is a "pipeline" for data transmission and for transferring data between
the blockchain virtual machine and external applications. The blockchain client transmits real-time
data to an external application via the Smart Pipeline, and the external application executes the
result before transmitting the data back to the blockchain client in real-time through the pipeline.
Smart Pipelines can be inserted into every step of the process where necessary to improve the
execution efficiency.
1 Kiayias, Aggelos, and Giorgos Panagiotakos. "Speed-Security Tradeoffs in Blockchain
Protocols." IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2015 (2015): 1019.
2 Kogias, Eleftherios Kokoris, Philipp Jovanovic, Nicolas Gailly, Ismail Khoffi, Linus Gasser, and
Bryan Ford. "Enhancing bitcoin security and performance with strong consistency via collective
signing." In 25th {USENIX} Security Symposium ({USENIX} Security 16), pp. 279-296. 2016.
3 https://coinatory.com/2018/09/07/why-dapp-on-eos-is-not-profitable-for-developers-part-1/
4 Olga Kharif,https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-12-04/cryptokitties-quicklybecomes-most-widely-used-ethereum-app
5 Wang, Wenshi. "A Vision for Trust, Security and Privacy of Blockchain." In International
Conference on Smart Blockchain, pp. 93-98. Springer, Cham, 2018.
6

DREP WHITEPAPER

Smart Pipeline Advantages:


“Smarter”: After the Smart Pipeline is deployed on-chain, its execution can be
automatically triggered according to pre-specified conditions. In comparison with Smart
Contracts, the Smart Pipeline will be able to handle more complex conditions and its
execution process will be much more difficult to interfere with, thus being more conducive
to the execution of complex transactions.



Zero Gas Consumption: When an application using Smart Pipelines is executed, no gas is
required as compared to Smart Contracts. However, zero gas consumption does not mean it
encourages non efficient use of resources as all Smart Pipeline codes are required to be open
sourced and will be supervised. Moreover, the computing resources that the Smart Pipeline
consumes is not part of the corresponding sub-chain, but to be provided by the owner of the
Smart Pipeline source code. Thus, even if there is a loophole in the above arrangement, it
will not affect the performance of the corresponding sub-chain.



No Language Limitations in Programming Coding: The Smart Pipeline technology uses
the WASM virtual machine to execute transactions. Users can write codes in different
programming languages and before compiling them into the WASM bytecode. As WASM
continues to evolve over time, more languages will be supported, and the code efficiency
will also be improved without affecting execution on the blockchain.



Meeting the Needs of Complex Applications: Smart Pipeline applications are not limited
by gas and enables blockchain to support more complex applications. Blockchains that
adopted the Smart Pipeline technology are still able to interact with other applications or
services, meeting the requirements of large and complex applications, thereby allowing for
the development of applications which are not supported by existing blockchains

2.1.2 DREP Dual-Layer Architecture and Customizable Sub-Chain
The DREP Chain takes form as a dual-layer structure constituting the main chain and sub-chains
to improve scalability and the efficiency of the blockchain infrastructure without affecting security
or decentralization. In DREP's open-sourced Testnet, DREP Chain achieved peak TPS of over
12,000 in a public benchmark test conducted on January 8th, 2019.
The test environment conditions were:


Block time: 10 - 15 seconds.
Block size: No limit.
Structure: 1 main chain, 10 sub-chains.
The structure of each chain: 7 mining nodes, 10 common nodes.
Testnet address: explorer.drep.org

The DREP main chain and the sub-chains can independently handle different transactions,
allowing for multiple consensus mechanisms to coexist with different data storage,
improving concurrency, and are compatible with different applications. Therefore, whether
used in a blockchain application, or integration of traditional enterprise software or platform, the
corresponding sub-chain can be customized to reduce the entry barrier.

7

DREP WHITEPAPER

2.1.3 DREP Consensus Mechanism
PBFT is a safe and efficient consensus mechanism that has been utilised in consortium chains
6
such as Hyperledger . However, existing PBFT consensus mechanisms do not meet the needs of
the public chain in terms of consensus efficiency. In the first version of DREP Testnet Darwin,
DREP enhances its PBFT consensus mechanism via the use of the Schnorr Multi-Signature
7
Algorithm , which allows the integration of a large number of signatures into a singular signatory,
thereby improving DREP Chain’s efficiencies in terms of storage, network transmission and other
aspects, reducing network transmission overheads.
DPOS consensus mechanism selects some node representatives to participate in transaction
verification and accounting to get higher performance and faster efficiency. In the following
Testnet versions after Testnet 1.0, DREP combines the advantages of two consensus mechanisms,
DPOS and PBFT, to achieve better fault tolerance, more stable consensus, more efficient, less
prone to fork.

2.1.4 DREP Developer Tool Kits
DREP will provide a series of development resources to encourage DApp and sub-chains
development, which includes Docker, IDE and other upper-level tools as well as console and other
infrastructure support. Test tools such as browsers, faucets and testnets will also be created to
assist developers who are building applications on DREP Chain.
DREP Docker has the advantages of quick set-up, easy installation and deployment; DREP
Console has programmable and interactive features, supports script operation, and is beneficial for
developers; RPC interface and JS library can also be used for multiple functions such as node
access.

2.2 Segregated Public Chain Ecosystem and Small Blockchain User
Base
The biggest competition in Blockchain industry lies within the “Main Chain” category8, with each
main chain striving to become the next flagship product in the blockchain industry, and hence
securing the market leader position of being the next ‘Apple’ or ‘Microsoft' in the technology
sector. As a result, operability restrictions are common between various public chains varying
from the infrastructure layer to DApps which results in segregation of user bases, such as with
ETH and EOS users. This inevitably leads to "Prisoner's Dilemma" in the development of public
chain.
With DREP ID, DREP aims to assimilate user accounts scattered across various public chains and
further expand this model to traditional platforms, allowing more users to access the Blockchain
frictionlessly and thus resolving the issue of small user base, promoting adoption and encouraging
developers to remove existing barriers between the various public chains.

6 https://www.hyperledger.org/wpcontent/uploads/2017/08/Hyperledger_Arch_WG_Paper_1_Consensus.pdf
7 Schnorr, Claus-Peter. "Efficient identification and signatures for smart cards." In Conference
on the Theory and Application of Cryptology, pp. 239-252. Springer, New York, NY, 1989.
8 Lianos, I. "Blockchain Competition–Gaining Competitive Advantage in the Digital Economy:
Competition Law Implications." Oxford University Press, 2019.
8

DREP WHITEPAPER

2.2.1 Digital Assets Interoperability
DREP ID supports multi-asset payment and exchange through the DREP Client application,
giving users access to a convenient one-stop account management. In addition, binding different
platform addresses to DREP ID allows cross-platform transfer by way of cross-chain
interoperation.
Such functionality is not just confined to blockchain. For traditional/centralized platforms within
the DREP network, cross-platform management such as asset and data integration, encryption of
information, etc. is also available through DREP ID without any interference on the existing
numerical systems, loyalty point system, economic system or other aspects of the original
platform, thereby forming an interconnected decentralized ecosystem.
This allows DREP ID to support cross-chain DApps, allowing DApp developers and users to
transfer mainstream currencies freely without suffering from infrastructure restrictions, and freely
trade tokens on Decentralized Exchanges. As a result, the user experience would be improved,
user bases would be expanded while reducing unwanted duplications in developments.

2.2.2 DREP ID Integrates Users’ Information
One of Blockchain’s key challenges affecting user adoption is due to the existence of
incomprehensible public key addresses of more than 20 digits. Only a small handful of public
chains, such as EOS, have recognized and addressed this issue to a small extent. For example,
with reference to EOS, each address registered will require consumption of resources, and thus it
will be costly to own multiple addresses.
In order to tackle this limitation, DREP propose to use an alias to generate account names that
users can easily understand and remember, which helps to lower the threshold of blockchain
usage. Furthermore, managing multiple addresses under one account name results in lower
resource consumption, circumvent the requirement of having to memorise public key address of
more than 20 digits, but the nickname that users can apply for themselves, stored via blockchain.
For existing accounts, recording specific and complex information becomes unnecessary when
linking with DREP ID. After DREP ID generates a new sub-account, addresses recording also
becomes unnecessary. This is convenient for end users as the Alias serves as a users’ DREP ID
marker, connecting various sub-accounts through DREP Reputation Protocol, while also
contributing to a users’ credibility and raising awareness to their “second identity” —— the DREP
ID.

2.2.3 DREP ID Protects User Privacy
Many centralized platforms analyze and resell users’ data without obtaining their consent, in
extreme cases, there have been instances whereby users are manipulated into selling their private
information. With DREP ID, users have the option to disclose their data. In terms of users’
privacy, third parties have to pay to compile such personal information. As a result, users can
receive DREP tokens as compensation and third parties can obtain more accurate datasets which
includes metrics such as user’s reputation value with a lower acquisition cost of obtaining such
data, a win-win situation for both.
When logging into centralized platforms, servers have access to sensitive info such as account
names, number and email addresses etc. Such platforms are also able to profile users based on
their day to day activities without users’ notice. DREP ID, combining with third party logging and
while avoiding privacy intrusion, gives users the right to choose what information such platforms
are able to acquire, and in which ways they can login. As a result, users do not have to remember
multitudes of accounts and passwords whilst protecting their privacy.
9

DREP WHITEPAPER

2.3 A mismatch between blockchain technology developed and
enterprises’ needs
Blockchain is highly anticipated as a tool to innovate production. However, due to its limitations,
low efficiency and a lack of development talent to connect blockchain technology with
enterprises’ needs, the adoption of blockchain technology is moving at a snail's pace.
DREP believes blockchain developers ought not to forecast market needs, but to look deeper
within the market and understand the real needs of clients and users. After identifying the pain
points and difficulties encountered in blockchain development, one could develop kits for easy
integration into a number of vertical markets.
DREP's main solutions fall into two broad categories. The first is to develop DREP technologies
into a more mature state to allow APIs and Plug-in support, thus greatly lowering the integration
complexity and costs borne by enterprise clients. The second is to develop customized SDKs for
vertical domains, solving specific problems in development and forming a complete vertical
domain technology solution.

2.3.1 DREP API and Plug-in Support to Promote Integration Ease
DREP’s API is adaptable in multiple languages, which provides easier adoption as centralized
platforms do not need to invest heavily to perform decentralized modification.
On the other hand, the DREP Plug-in aims to satisfy the more specific and complex needs of
vertical markets.
Advantages of DREP API and Plug-in:
1.
Allows highly-targeted development without complete comprehension of blockchain
technology, making it easier to enrich functionality.
2.
Support parallel development and improving the debugging and development processes.
3.
Lowers the entry barrier to solving practical problems with Blockchain technology.

2.3.2 Targeting The Vertical Markets via The DREP SDK
The DREP SDK supports a wide variety of DApps. With DREP SDK, DApp development teams
are able to deploy on multiple public chains with relative ease, with built-in wallets and asset
trading platforms support. Developers can also utilize DREP ID to acquire users across multiple
public chain ecosystems, thereby making Super DApps an achievable reality.
Super DApps: DApps that are not confined to a specific public chain, but are connected to various
public chains through DREP SDK. Users will be able to pay, transfer, lend and conduct other
economic activities without any barrier. At the same time, user education cost are greatly reduced
as DREP SDK allows seamless transfer of users from traditional platforms to decentralised
version on Blockchain.
DREP SDK for blockchain games has the following features, including but not limited to:
1.

Gaming account module: Cross-chain DREP ID removes segregation of user base across
different public chains;

2.

Payment & trading module: The built-in payment and trading engine can further
improve the experience of trading digital asset;

3.

Digital operation module: Visualization of operational data and in-game economic
system, ensuring transparency and allowing configurability.
10

DREP WHITEPAPER

DREP Technology Framework
3.1 DREP Public Chain
The DREP Chain is a high-performance public chain that was fully developed in house by the
DREP team. It is compatible with both EVM and WASM Smart Contracts and has a dual-layer
structure constituting of a root chain and customizable sub-chains. The root chain is primarily
responsible for data synchronization to the sub-chains and DREP token transactions, while the
sub-chains enables enterprises to develop their own DApps and blockchain ecosystems. This
allows enterprises to issue and distribute tokens independently, facilitate deployment of Smart
Contracts and Pipelines, while also permitting the exchange of assets and sharing of reputation
values across multi-chains.
The DREP Chain prioritizes efficiency when it comes to consensus selection - an improved PBFT
was deployed as the consensus mechanism for both the root and sub-chains during the DREP
Testnet 1.0 phase. The root chains will also be gradually improved via the adoption of a DPOS
mechanism linkage with the reputation protocol.
The technologies behind DREP Chain is based on an improved version of the traditional PBFT
consensus mechanism and DPOS consensus mechanism, promoting the adoption of multi-party
signature and thus being able to amalgamate the benefits of the DPOS consensus mechanism to
improve the efficiency of DREP Chain. The improved efficiency of the DREP Chain is not only
reflected in the TPS benchmark, but also in the storage and network transmission process. With
the original PBFT protocol, participants are required to transmit signatory details to the leader,
before the leader is able to integrate the details onto the block header. With the implementation of
multi-party signatories, this process can be greatly improved. DREP Chain utilises the Schnorr
Multi-Signature Algorithm, which is based on the Secp256k1 elliptic curve, allowing the singular
generation of one signature. As such, this greatly reduces the signature length and thereby
reducing the size of the block header, while minimizing the cost of storage as well as the network
transmission overheads. Under OPOS mechanism, the evil node can be cleared to make the
network more stable and secure.
Illustration of DREP’s Technical Structure:

11

DREP WHITEPAPER

3.1.1 DREP Smart Pipeline
DREP promotes the use of Smart Pipelines to improve bulk data processing capabilities as well as
to facilitate the transfers of data between blockchain virtual machines and external applications.
As compared to Smart Contracts which are widely used on platforms such as Ethereum, Smart
Pipelines offers the benefits of greater efficiency, stronger scalability and zero gas consumption.

Disadvantages of Smart Contracts:


The maximum data capacity of each block is extremely limited. For instance, with
regards to Ethereum’s architecture, the maximum usable gas in a single block is 10
9
million - this means that DApps cannot process large amounts of data or will result in
network congestion of the blockchain.



High gas consumption prevents developers from using mainstream algorithms that are
commonly found on traditional platforms, thereby limiting the design of DApps.



Lack of active calling function, which means Smart Contracts cannot automatically
perform complex tasks that will require external script support.

Illustration of DREP’s Smart Pipeline:

When a blockchain generates a node, transactions in the node are stored into the virtual machine
for execution. Smart Pipelines can be inserted before or after each execution. They function as a
program breakpoints and clients can activate them in accordance with their needs. When a
breakpoint is triggered, a stop-the-world process would automatically be executed. Real time data
will then be transmitted and processed by the external application via the Smart Pipeline. After
data processing, the results will be disseminated back to the client on blockchain through the
Smart Pipeline. The client will then store the particular dataset onto the database, thereby
completing the data linkage to blockchain. Such a process eliminates the drawbacks of huge
amounts of data processing in the virtual machine. With the Smart Pipeline greatly optimized by
DREP team, the transmission process not only improves operational efficiency and also enhances
data processing efficiency.
DREP’s Smart Pipeline application consists of the WASM instruction set, which is distributed via
blockchain. Applications can also be executed on different sub-chains, and this is also applicable
9 https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/1106/is-there-a-limit-for-transaction-size/1110
12

DREP WHITEPAPER

to verified applications that are self developed.

3.1.2 DREP Cross Chain Protocol
DREP’s Cross Chain Protocol transcends traditional thinking on cross-chain transactions as it not
only provides the basic functionality of transferring assets, but is also capable of synchronizing
and migrating behavioral data related to personal identities such as credit rating. Such data are
then secured through homomorphic encryption to ensure high levels of security and privacy.
Taking into account of different needs, DREP’s Cross Chain Protocol adopts both isomorphic and
heterogeneous cross-chain solutions to address performance and cost efficiency requirements
found under different architectures:


Isomorphic Cross Chain: DREP main chain and sub-chains are connected via a
frictionless isomorphic cross-chain protocol; this allows users to receive real-time
updates of their wallets even among different cross-chain platforms.



Heterogeneous Cross Chain: DREP’s distributed private key control technology has
the ability to connect external chains and traditional platforms to DREP’s ecosystem,
achieving a more secure heterogeneous cross-chain while extending the application
scope of the reputation protocol across multiple platforms.

With the adoption of isomorphic and heterogeneous cross-chain technologies, token assets and
reputation data from different DApps can then be integrated with the main account, thereby
actualizing a multi-level and dimensional list of user reputational profiles.
In addition, there are plans to expand collaboration with existing partners on the reputation
domain. This will be facilitated by extending the reputation protocol to different systems in
accordance with the cross-domain security control requirements, thereby forming an extensive
reputation ecosystem while extending DREP’s reputation protocol beyond blockchain.

Distributed Private Key Control10
DREP’s Distributed Private Key Control utilizes decentralized technology to administer cross
chain assets with multiple private keys. Account owners retain ownership of the assets, however,
with only one singular private key, he/she will not be able to withdraw the assets. They are only
able to do so only after obtaining enough private keys via applications with the corresponding
chains.
Using an example to illustrate: Alice wants to convert one token via cross chain transaction. A
number of nodes on the cross chain, either shards or super representative committees, will
maintain one multi sig account on the original chain, while assisting to allocate and administer
private keys. It is not possible for a single node to obtain Alice’s token from the original chain
without possessing enough private keys.

10 Kate, Aniket, and Ian Goldberg. "Distributed private-key generators for identity-based
cryptography." In International Conference on Security and Cryptography for Networks, pp. 436453. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2010.
13

DREP WHITEPAPER

When Alice deposits one token to a multisig account controlled by DREP, one equivalent crosschain token will be generated, which can be traded with other nodes in the ecosystem other crosschain token with equivalent value. To withdraw the cross-chain token onto the original chain,
Alice needs to lock her cross-chain token, which will then release the same amount of tokens on
the original chain.
To reiterate, the Distributed Private Key Control technology by DREP provides higher security
and privacy while also supports the deployment of Smart Contracts, which includes multicurrency complex contracts. This is regardless of whether the original chain is able to support
Smart Contracts or whether it has the ability to perform cross chain transactions.

3.1.3 DREP Privacy Protection
Schnorr Multi-Signature Algorithm
A key part of DREP Chain will be the adoption of Schnorr Multi-Signature Algorithm for its
PBFT mechanism. The traditional PBFT protocol requires users to transmit signatures to the
Leader, whom will then integrate them into the block header. However, with the storage of
multiple signatures, this will result in increased sizes of block headers thereby impacting network
transmission efficiency. To circumvent such situations, DREP Chain adopts the use of the
Schnoor Multi-Signature Algorithm, that is based on the Secp256k1 elliptic curve, thus greatly
improving the efficiency of blockchain transmission.
Graphical Exhibit Illustrating the Performance Improvement from the Implementation of
11
the Schnorr Multi-Signature Algorithm

11 https://github.com/sipa/bips/blob/bip-schnorr/bip-schnorr.mediawiki
14

DREP WHITEPAPER

In comparison with other signature algorithms, the Schnoor Multi-Signature Algorithm only
generates one signature. This greatly reduces signature length and block header size, which in turn
lowers the cost of storage and network transmission overhead.
It also provides additional benefits on the privacy front and is known for being conducive towards
privacy protection.

Homomorphic Encryption and Privacy Protection
During the deployment of DREP Chain, it is inevitable that information to third parties might be
disseminated due to data sharing via the internal Smart Pipeline. In order to eliminate such
occurrences and to promote maximum user security and privacy, DREP Chain adopts the use of
homomorphic encryption to safeguard users’ sensitive information.
DREP Chain’s homomorphic encryption utilizes the Paillier technique. It is computed based on
the n-th residual classes of a quadratic integer group.
Where m stands for a message to be encrypted and m∈(0,n), then select random r∈(0,n) via
generated key pairing: public key (n,g) and private key (λ,u), compute ciphertext C as C=gmrn
modn2 .
12

Ciphertext C is both a homomorphic and homomorphic mixed multiplication plaintext , that is

Homomorphic addition of plaintexts
D(E(m1,r1)E(m2,r2) mod n2)=m1+m2 mod n
D(E(m1,r1)gm2 mod n2)=m1+m2 mod n


Homomorphic mixed multiplication of plaintexts
D(E(m1,r1)m2 mod n2)=m1m2 mod n

A variety of data processing can also be performed after encryption, with the results transmitted
back to the users. With the use of private keys, users will be able to obtain the same set of results
as with plain text processing, and yet minimizing the possibility of data leakage.
12 Paillier, Pascal, and David Pointcheval. "Efficient public-key cryptosystems provably secure
against active adversaries." In International Conference on the Theory and Application of
Cryptology and Information Security, pp. 165-179. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1999.
15

DREP WHITEPAPER

In addition, homomorphic cryptographic signatures could be added to various contents, thereby
enabling the possibility to verify misprocessing, spoofing and other forms of misconduct during
data processing to ensure data accuracy.

High Security Multi-Party Algorithm13
In the process of distributed private key control and ring signatures involving multiple people
sharing private keys, it is necessary to follow the principle of never completely exposing all
sensitive information. Therefore, DREP chooses secure multi-party computation to protect data
security. Complete information would only be available when it is in use.
DREP Chain’s High Security Multi-Party Algorithm solves the following issue: n individuals
respectively hold privacy x1, x2, ... xn, to calculate a specific function y = f (x1, x2, ... xn), while
these n individuals do not have access to others’ privacy. Given that there are malicious nodes in
the real world seeking to obtain other parties’ private information, DREP Chain’s High Security
Multi-Party Algorithm denies participants the right to access any additional information besides
the computation result regardless of whether they have malicious intentions or not.
DREP considers integrating holomorphic encryption, bulletproof14 to execute Security Multi-Party
Algorithm, taking repudiation computation for example.

DREP Chain also deploys the High Security Multi-Party Algorithm to encrypt important data
within each DApp and the DREP platform. Users’ original data are kept safe even when there is a
leakage during the data transmission process. The algorithm ensures parties involved in the data
transmission process are able to encrypt and decrypt the data in a much safer manner.
Furthermore, users’ public key, address and data found on each DApp within the DREP Platform
are independent and concealed.

3.1.4 Improvement and Optimization
An integral reason for the development of DREP Chain is to enhance integration with existing
enterprise systems. The strong coupling between modules of the main chains of existing

13 Yao, Andrew Chi-Chih. "Protocols for secure computations." In FOCS, vol. 82, pp. 160-164.
1982.
14 Bünz, Benedikt, Jonathan Bootle, Dan Boneh, Andrew Poelstra, Pieter Wuille, and Greg
Maxwell. "Bulletproofs: Short proofs for confidential transactions and more." In 2018 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pp. 315-334. IEEE, 2018.
16

DREP WHITEPAPER

blockchains hinders the system integration. Additionally, many high-TPS main chains fail to meet
the performance requirements for high concurrent requests transmissions.

Structure Optimization:
DREP modularizes the development of database, network, consensus and other technical features,
before storing them separately in containers. A modular call can be performed through
middleware, resulting in the decoupling of each module. Furthermore the infrastructure layer is
able to automatically implement a series of operations such as the registration, activation and
upgrading of the container by way of middleware.
For sub-chain developers, the code of DREP Chain’s infrastructure layer boasts clear logic and
allows easy reconstruction. In addition, DREP has created a novel routing and message
dispatching mechanism which completely decouples the network and consensus layers, increasing
the scope of consensus beyond PBFT, thus facilitating independent development of consensus at
the sub-chain level.

DPOS+PBFT Consensus Mechanism Optimization
DREP Chain uses DBFT, a new consensus mechanism that is a fusion of the DPOS and PBFT
consensus mechanisms. In the DBFT consensus mechanism, the proper operation of the
blockchain depends on the trustees, who are fully equivalent. The trustee's responsibilities include:


providing stable servers to ensure normal operation of the nodes ensuring the nodes will
collect network transactions



ensuring the nodes will collect network transactions



ensuring the nodes will validate the transaction and pack the transaction into blocks



ensuring the nodes will broadcast the blocks, and add blocks to their own database after
verification by other nodes



Participating in the governance and maintenance of DREP Chain

The trustee's node will receive block rewards and transaction fee for performing their duties.
Seven trustees will be selected to help operate DREP Chain Test Network 1.0 Darwin. Any DREP
token holder can participate in both the trustee election and voting processes. Each token holder’s
influence on the voting outcome is proportional to their token holdings. Votes can be made and
withdrawn any time before the end of the trustee election. Seven users with the highest number of
votes at the end of each election will become the trustees of DREP Chain. In return for being
responsible for generating blocks and maintaining the system, the seven elected trustees will be
rewarded appropriately.
The fundamental purpose of the election is to, based on user voting, select seven highly committed
users who may strongly facilitate DREP’s development and operations. They are expected to
operate nodes to ensure high system efficiency and efficacy and also contribute to the
development of the project to the best of their abilities.


The specific implementation of the election is shown below:
dlist_i = get N delegates sort by votes
dlist_i = shuffle(dlist_i)
loop
slot = global_time_offset / block_interval
pos = slot % N
if dlist_i[pos] exists in this
17

DREP WHITEPAPER

generateBlock(keypair of dlist_i[pos])
else
skip


Voting Processes:
DREP's DBFT is a byzantine-tolerant state machine replication, and is implemented
with a three-stage voting process: "Pre-prepare", "Prepare", and “Commit”.
Phase 1: Pre-prepare
The Leader is responsible for receiving clients’ requests
The Leader sends a signed "Pre-prepare" message (view, seq) to other Validators over
the network.

Phase 2: Prepare
Each Validator must decide whether to accept the Leader’s proposal after receiving the
"Pre-prepare" message. If the Validators accept the proposal, they will send their signed
"Prepare" messages to all the other generals, else they will not transmit any message.
The Validators who sent the "Prepare" message will launch the "Prepare" Phase.
A general who receives more than three "Prepare" messages will enter into a "Prepared"
state. The collection of these "Prepare" messages is collectively referred to as the
"Prepared Certificate".

Phase 3: Commit
If a "Prepared" general decides to commit, he will send a signed "Commit" message to
all generals, else he will not transmit any message.
18

DREP WHITEPAPER

The general who sends the "Commit" message will launch the "Commit" Phase.
If the generals receive more than three "Commit" messages, they will perform as
instructed by the message. This also means the proposal has reached a consensus.
After executing the instructions of the message, the general enters into the "Committed"
state and reports the execution result (Reply) to the byzantine client.
Once the reply has been sent, the current process will end and the general will wait for
the next proposal.

Sub-chain Function Enhancement
A rollback is needed if there is a sub-chain data error during the synchronization of sub-chain data
to the main chain., While the original level DB does not support this operation, DREP’s selfdeveloped sub-chain nesting and rollback can solve the problems.

DREP Staking Mechanism
DREP token holders interested to participate in the verification of transactions over the DREP
network are able to stake their tokens to support nodes in becoming candidate nodes. The staking
participant will be rewarded based on the staking duration and amount of tokens staked. When the
participant needs the token for other transactions, he can submit a withdrawal request and will
receive the staked tokens together with staking rewards in his wallet after the current DBFT cycle.
By actively participating in the network system through staking, token holders enhance network
security safeguard their rights as token holders and receive staking rewards. Without actively
staking, the tokens held do not grant the holder any rights and benefits from staking. Thus, the
staking economy is a significant trend for cryptocurrencies and is inseparable from every token
holder.

19

DREP WHITEPAPER

DREP Smart Channel
An independent data cluster called Smart Channel may need to be established between nodes in
the DREP network due to data isolation or other special requirements. One of the nodes will
broadcast a transaction to create a Smart Channel while the other nodes will apply to join the data
cluster created. The influence of each node in this cluster is equal. The nodes can communicate
privately, handle transactions independently, and jointly manage all copies of the ledger associated
with the cluster. The cluster can be seen to be structured similarly to a circle of friends, although
members of the cluster are not necessarily friends. A person may have multiple circles of friends,
and each circle of friends has specific activities that they want to do. Different circles of friends
can be completely independent or may overlap, but each circle of friends on its own is an entity
and has its own "rules".
Co-operation between enterprises or organizations are usually closely linked and may overlap.
Suppose that there are four organizations named Org1, Org2, Org3, and Org4, of which Org1,
Org2, and Org3 together form a financial chain alliance, while Org2 andOrg4 establish a supply
chain alliance. DREP’s Smart Channel allows them to build multiple clusters based on specific
business needs, creating different consortium chains, and adding new chains in real-time as
needed. By supporting clusters, DREP allows a flexible construction of consortium chains under
this architecture.

Virtual Machine Optimization:
DREP has improved existing EVM to meet DREP chain’s business needs:


Added the ability to execute smart contracts on different chains



Increased reputation-related orders



Upgraded gas pricing, allowing for automatic adjustments in accordance with
configuration and demand on each sub-chain



Re-designed infrastructure database

Database Optimization
High concurrent requests place great pressure on mechanisms such as caching. This means that
blockchains which boasted their ‘high TPS’ capabilities may not necessarily be able to handle
high transaction volumes as marketed. Unlike these blockchains, DREP optimizes the necessary
mechanisms such as caches, databases, etc., and uses fine-grained locks inside lRU cache to
ensure high performance even when TPS reaches 5,000.

20

DREP WHITEPAPER

15

LevelDB database on DREP Chain utilizes Hash Patricia Trie (Hitton Prefix Tree, hereinafter
referred to as HPT) technology to store user account status and changes in account status.
HPT is a multi-fork tree data structure. Each node in the tree consists of 4 attributes: Sequence,
Value, Children and IsLeaf. The Value attribute of the HPT root node stores the state hash value
of the current database for block verification. The Sequence attribute is the only way to get a
specific complete Key.

When a user’s account information changes, the database will make corresponding modifications
to HPT to reflect the changes in the current database states. Based on the hexadecimal string key
of the user account, the database would conduct a thorough search starting from the root node
until a certain leaf node has been found. The Sequence attributes of all nodes on the search path
are then spliced sequentially to obtain a complete key.

Two Main Advantages of HPT:


Firstly, the irreversibility and extremely low conflict attributes of the tree structure and
hash algorithm improve the convenience and reliability of the database states.



Secondly, the key value design of the database and data compression capability of the
prefix tree greatly improve the efficiency of querying and modifying the database states
whilst also reducing computational costs. The database could be updated quickly to
reflect the changes to users’ account information by operating the same number of tree
nodes as the depth of the HPT. When multiple modifications are made to the account
information in one transaction, the increase in computation required to modify the HPT
is far lesser than the increase in the amount of account information. The greater the
amount of account information, the more considerable the amount of MPT computations
could be saved.

Compared with the common prefix tree structure used by Ethereum to save account information,
DREP’s HPT unifies and optimizes the design of the tree nodes instead of adopting Ethereum’s
method of dividing tree nodes into null nodes, leaf nodes, extension nodes and branch nodes.
DREP’s HPT reduces the prefix tree height and thorough search timing, thus improving the query
and modification capabilities.

15 Kniesburges, Sebastian, and Christian Scheideler. "Hashed Patricia Trie: Efficient longest
prefix matching in peer-to-peer systems." In International Workshop on Algorithms and
Computation, pp. 170-181. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2011.
21

DREP WHITEPAPER

3.2 DREP Client
DREP Client integrates asset management, identity management, application development, traffic
portal, and other value-added services in DREP’s ecosystem. Users can store, manage and use a
variety of digital assets through DREP Client. An easy-to-use SDK is also provided for developers
and enterprises. Users can connect with various public blockchains including DREP Chain
through the SDK.

Benefits of DREP Client:


Versatile built-in DREP SDK. DREP Client includes a built-in SDK which allows
developers and enterprises from various industry verticals to develop relevant
blockchain applications easily.



Feature-rich. Users can enjoy a wide variety of services through DREP Client which
facilitates the utility of blockchain applications.



Independent and valuable digital identity. DREP Client not only helps safeguard the
ownership and security of user data but also accrue users related benefits.



Cross-chain support. Based on DREP cross-chain protocol, DREP Client supports the
storage and cross-chain transactions of multiple digital assets. DREP SDK also allows
developers to implement multi-chain interoperability.

3.2.1 DREP Wallet
DREP Wallet is a highly-secure, multi-chain Hierarchical Deterministic wallet with asset
management, privacy features, and other value-added services such as cloud-based custodial
service. DREP Wallet version 1.2.0 which was launched in October 2019 currently supports the
management of BTC, ETH, BNB, and other mainstream tokens or coins. Being a cross-ecosystem
and cross-platform asset management tool, DREP Wallet equips enterprises with the ability to
deploy wallet tools quickly.

Key Highlights of DREP Wallet:


Supports multi-chain, multi-currency asset management



Facilitates cross-chain interactions



Provides staking, gamification and other value-added services



Possesses decentralized private key storage technology



Is equipped with Digital DID Privacy Protection Technology and Zero Knowledge
Proof



Is further enhanced by homomorphic encryption and other privacy technologies

22

DREP WHITEPAPER

DREP Wallet Architecture:

High Level of Security and Privacy Protection


Decentralized Private Key Storage Technology
DREP wallet stores users’ private keys locally and not on the cloud, which grants a user
complete control of his digital assets. Symmetric, irreversible and other encryption
algorithms are also used to encrypt user data, allowing the creation of a multi-chain
wallet with a single identity as well as the usage of a mnemonic word to manage
multiple chains. In order to achieve high levels of security, user data is encrypted and
sharded before undergoing data redundancy through storage in nodes located in
Singapore, Dubai, India and other countries. Advantages: Safe, reliable, and efficient.



Digital DID Privacy Protection Technology and Zero Knowledge Proof
DREP introduces zero-knowledge proof in DID to prevent leakage of unrelated
sensitive information. The corresponding zero-knowledge proof is stored in the DID
document as verifiable credentials. With DREP’s DID technology and DREP Client,
users only need to maintain a single DREP DID private key, to access and manage
multiple types of digital assets (e.g. BTC, ETH, etc.).



Multi-signature
DREP offers m-of-n multi-sig. A public key is obtained from all participating users,
where corresponding private key are used to generate a multi-sig transaction, and the
public key are announced to other participants. Every participant will use their public
key to create a signature with same restrictions (i.e same m, n and list of public keys) to
23

DREP WHITEPAPER

form a multi-sig, creating a multi-sig address beginning with the number ‘3’. in Pay-toScript-Hash (P2SH) model, a participant will generate a multi-sig transaction using a
multi-sig address. To have the multi-sig transaction broadcast, at least m participants are
required to sign off-chain following incomplete signature from previous participants.
Multi-sig is especially useful in e-commerce, asset division, co-management of capital
and so on.



DREP Security Technology Library

DREP introduces zero-knowledge proof in DID
DREP introduces zero-knowledge proof in DID to ensure the security of private data. The
corresponding zero-knowledge proof is stored in the DID document as verifiable credential so that
private data would not be exposed. With DREP’s DID technology and DREP Client, users need
only to maintain a single DREP DID private key to access and manage multiple types of digital
assets. For example, a verifiable credential D is issued by a trusted third party DID_X to DID_Y.
DID_Y’s verifiable credential D, which DID_Z wishes to verify, contains information that is
irrelevant to the verification needs, while DID_Y wishes to conceal the irrelevant information
from DID_Z. DID_Y can negotiate with DID_Z to verify the necessary information of interest via
zero-knowledge proof such that his privacy is protected.

24

DREP WHITEPAPER

Ease of Use and Interoperability


Convenient usage: With a single key (mnemonics, private key, or Keystore), DREP
Wallet supports the management and exchange of digital assets as well as the
management of multiple sets of addresses.



Efficient transaction experience: Provides direct access to block explorer for users to
check on-chain transactions easily. Cross-chain transfers will be completed within an
hour with real-time progress updates.



Multilingual support: DREP Wallet 1.2.0 which was launched in October 2019 currently
supports Chinese, English, Korean and other languages used in mainstream digital asset
market. Support for other languages has been planned and scheduled.

3.2.2 DREP Bridge
DREP Bridge is a proprietary cross-chain digital asset exchange and trading tool developed by
DREP. DREP Bridge allows fast, convenient and secure token swap across different public chains.
It can easily be integrated with existing platforms, making cross-chain value transfer a reality,
which in turn allows enterprises or users to perform asset exchange, cross-chain transactions and
cross-chain asset circulation.

DREP Bridge Benefits:


Promising business development potential. DREP Bridge supports the convenient and
safe exchange of digital assets between any public chains and only needs to be integrated
according to enterprise requirements.



Client with comprehensive features. DREP Bridge Client is currently available in the
form of a website, IOS client, Android client. DREP Bridge can be accessed directly
through DREP Client or can be built into a partner’s client.



Fully functional. DREP Bridge allows for efficient use and can effectively reduce R&D
costs.
25

DREP WHITEPAPER

Isomorphic Cross-chain Mechanism
DREP Isomorphic cross-chain is implemented by using smart contracts to achieve bi-directional
locking. To perform a cross-chain transfer, the digital asset on the main chain will be locked,
while the equivalent assets on the sub-chain will be unlocked. Conversely, when the related assets
in the sub-chain are locked, the locked equivalent assets on the main chain will be unlocked.

Heterogeneous Cross-chain Mechanism
DREP Bridge heterogeneous cross-chain is made possible with the additional role, the ‘bridge.’
Based on two-way locking, an extra verification will be done to enable heterogeneous cross-chain
operations.
Using the example of transferring 10 tokens from Chain A to Chain B to illustrate the cross-chain
interaction:


Tracking. If a cross-chain transaction is to be performed between Chain A and Chain B,
the "bridge" needs to operate light node services on both chains. This allows the block
header information to be transferred and received in real-time which facilitates the
subsequent implementation of Simplified Payment Verification;



DREP cross-chain protocol is initialized on Chain A, locking 10 tokens to be transferred
cross-chain. The corresponding proof is generated and sent to the "Bridge" through DREP
Bridge;



The "Bridge" receives the proof and verifies that 10 tokens have been locked on Chain A
through Chain A's block header, before proceeding to generate 10 equivalent token on
Chain B.

3.2.3 DREP Gamification Tool
DREP Gamification Tool is a toolkit based on DREP SDK. Developers will be able to create
economic models, provide asset consumption scenarios, and enable user-defined operations. With
the objective of greatly enhancing the token economic system, DREP Gamification Tool is secure,
decentralized, has customizable game elements and allows easy integration.
The current blockchain gaming industry faces a multitude of challenges such as lack of games,
small user base, high development costs, over-simplistic economic system. In response to these
problems, DREP Gamification Tool includes personalized in-game finance module, flexible
26

DREP WHITEPAPER

economic system (including staking mechanism), multi-currency payment SDK, and other
features. DREP Gamification Tool is released with the aim of accelerating the adoption of
blockchain games and making on-chain economic models a reality.

Benefits of DREP Gamification Tool:


Customizable gamification module enhances the playability of games and incentivizes
users to pay for in-game items.



Flexible and personalized economic models including staking to meet the needs of
different users.



Supports easy deployment of the game on multiple chains and payment in multiple
currencies. This lowers the development costs and increases user outreach.



Easy to be integrated with and be implemented on Web/iOS/Android clients.

Multi-currency Payment SDK
DREP Gamification Tool supports payment, exchange, storage, and locking of any currency
required for public and high-level applications, including transition token and coins issued on
different public chain standards. DREP SDK includes a complete payment SDK, developers can
implement multi-currency payment function such as clearing and settlement function through
simple parameter settings. The advantages of multi-currency payment SDKs and traditional
payment channels are:
DREP Gamification Tool supports the payment, exchange, storage, and locking of any currency
required by public chains and high-level applications, including transition token and coins issued
on different public chain standards. DREP SDK includes a complete payment SDK. Developers
27

DREP WHITEPAPER

can implement multi-currency payment and settlement functions through simple parameter
settings. The advantages of multi-currency payment SDKs and traditional payment channels are:


Low barrier: Payment can be completed with a private key without registration and real
name authentication



Strong liquidity: The blockchain network is global. Digital currency payment is not
limited by geography, and users can use digital currency to make payments anytime,
anywhere.



Great convenience: The blockchain network has the "transfer-and-settle" property.
Developers can receive the digital currency as soon as the user completes the payment
without the need to wait for clearing or settlement.



Low cost: Peer-to-peer payment without intermediary reduces payment costs.

Digital Asset Consumption Scenario
In order to increase the playability and profitability of blockchain games, DREP Gamification
Tool has constructed a wealth of digital asset consumption scenarios which are mainly divided
into two modules:


Game finance module. Developers can independently determine the game's economic
model parameters, including the number of tokens to be locked, length of lock-up period,
rights to the points earned, additional in-game economic benefits, coupons system, etc.



Game customization module. This module enables customization according to the
personal needs of the users including heroes, props, skins, maps and other in-game
elements.

The combination of the two modules greatly enhances the games' playability and incentivizes
users to pay for in-game items, providing an efficient and compelling scenario for the
consumption of digital assets.

Deflationary Economic Model
DREP Gamification Tool includes a dynamic guidance tool for maintaining an economicallystable token issuance system, which ensures stable or increasing token value. In addition, it also
provides data monitoring and visual operation platform. Public chains and application developers
can adjust the game economic model in real-time through changing the parameters in the
background as well as attract and retain users with in-game financial incentives.
Based on the digital asset consumption scenarios above, as well as DREP Gamification Tool's
token economic dynamic guidance tool, public chains and application developers can easily create
a decentralized deflationary economic model.

Viral Marketing and User Acquisition Tool
To help public chains and application developers acquire and expand the user base rapidly through
viral marketing campaigns, DREP Gamification Tool has built-in tools such as invitation rewards,
referral bonuses, leaderboards, etc. Viral user acquisition can be achieved through the game or
peripheral products.
Decentralized properties and incentives based on DREP Gamification Tool can assist games to
effectively attract users through widespread publicity and communication. The tool's cross-chain
capabilities can also help applications reach out to and acquire users of multiple public chains,
while the deflationary economy model will help retain users.
28

DREP WHITEPAPER

3.3 DREP ID
In addition to being the digital identity used on DREP and collaborative application platforms,
DREP ID also encompasses user-generated digital images across different platforms. For
individual users, DREP ID is the first step to highly secure, private and convenient digital asset
management.
For enterprises, DREP ID facilitates the acquisition of user traffic and high-quality data. It also
provides a shortcut for cross-chain asset interactions, allowing transactions using a wide variety of
cryptocurrencies.

3.3.1 Security
In DREP’s ecosystem, every user has a master account and several sub-accounts. DREP ID serves
as a link, connecting reputation data and assets across different applications and building a
complete user reputation profile image.
DREP, based on Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
accounts by using the master account.

16

algorithm, generates sub-

The formula of HMAC is as follows:

K is the master account key, m is the sub-chain ID, both opad and ipad are specific constants. The
private key of each sub-account is generated by the private key of the master account and
corresponding sub-chain ID, which enables the master account to control sub-accounts on each
application:


Master key control: In order to generate and obtain private keys of sub-chain accounts,
users need to utilize the private keys, identity verification codes and sub-chain IDs of the
corresponding master account simultaneously. This guarantees the security of the private
keys for sub-chain accounts.

16 rfc2104, https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2104
29

DREP WHITEPAPER



Unconnectable: Under asymmetric encryption protection, regardless of main or subchain, the accounts on each chain cannot be reversely connected, thus ensuring the
anonymity of information on-chain.

DREP’s HMAC has the following advantages comparing with BTC’s HD wallet:


Variable address length and higher security
17

DREP uses SHA3’s SHAKE256 (SHAKE=SHA+keccak) algorithm to hash public keys,
making it possible to vary the output address length, while achieving better performance
and greater security.


Lower computational costs
HD wallet needs a large number of sub-private keys to locate sub-account addresses.
With DREP, sub-private keys are optional due to Private Seed, which connects master
account address with that of the sub-accounts’, significantly reducing storage and
computational costs.

In addition, DREP adopts secure multi-party computation, ring signatures and other measures to
protect user ID information, minimizing the risk of data abuse and leakage.

3.3.2 Zooko’s triangle Breakthrough
The Zooko’s triangle is a trilemma of three ideal properties that are generally considered desirable
for names of participants in a network protocol.


Secure: The amount of damage a malicious entity can inflict on the system should be as
low as possible.



Decentralized: Names correctly resolve to their respective entities without the use of a
central authority.



Understandable: Meaningful and memorable (low-entropy) names are provided to the
users.

DREP ID’s Alias Identity System addresses the limitations of the Zooko’s triangle. Users can
generate an understandable alias/nickname to represent their ID in a secure and decentralized
environment. This ID will be easy to remember and conducive to the users’ reputation and profile
image.

3.3.3 Universality
Through DREP SDK, DREP ID achieves decentralized login which has the advantages of thirdparty login and autonomous identity. It also supports the login of a large number of applications
and controls the information transferred. Furthermore, DREP ID is compatible with BTC, ETH,
EOS and other blockchain architectures, and transcends blockchain limitations such as application
location.

17 Dworkin, Morris J. SHA-3 standard: Permutation-based hash and extendable-output functions.
No. Federal Inf. Process. Stds.(NIST FIPS)-202. 2015.
30

DREP WHITEPAPER

3.3.4 Convenience
DREP ID connects multiple assets, breaking the asset barriers and facilitating cross-chain transfer.
DREP Client integrates with various other applications and platforms to support multi-asset
payment and exchange. After users have stored their identity data using DREP ID, the relevant
information can be automatically selected and transmitted to the application when required.

3.3.5 Uniqueness
Being decentralized, DREP ID cannot restrict user registration nor force users to perform KYC
(Know-Your-Client). Users will ultimately benefit when ID reputation profile image becomes
more detailed. As it is more credible to use one unique ID rather than multiple scattered IDs,
binding different application accounts to DREP ID in the form of sub-accounts may enhance the
users’ trustworthiness and reputation.

3.4 DREP Reputation Protocol
DREP Reputation System will complement DREP ID to provide long-term value for ID holders.
The reputation protocol enables the design of effective user loyalty systems and facilitates
accurate user profiling, greatly improving the quality of B2B2C services.

3.4.1 An Overview of The Reputation System
DREP Reputation System is a comprehensive close-loop ecosystem which includes a general
reputation protocol, reputation pipeline interface, reputation on-chain data storage and algorithm
library, reputation reward system, reputation value account management and fake account
identification mechanisms. In the ecosystem, users’ behavior is linked to their reputation which
will be evaluated by multiple interacting parties. Users will also receive complete real-time
updates on their reputation.

General Reputation Protocol


Record users’ reputation data and data changes across different platforms on DREP Chain
to achieve immutable reputation data.



Break down existing barriers and conduct cross-chain transmission of user behavioral
data, forming real-time reputation data synchronization.



Integrate user reputation amongst different platforms through the user’s DREP DID,
building a complete user reputation profile image.

Reputation Pipeline
Reputation Pipeline utilizes Smart Pipeline, which avoids the huge consumption of computational
resources by smart contracts and thus improves data processing capability without affecting the
performance of blockchain, making real-time user reputation settlement a reality.

Reputation Algorithm Library
DApps cater to a wide range of industries whose needs are very different. The features of DApps
catering to the same industry may also vary greatly. Therefore, it is impossible and unscientific to
31

DREP WHITEPAPER

calculate reputation value with a single algorithm. In DREP system, the default reputation
algorithm is the summation of the historical cumulative value that decreases continuously over
time and the current value.
The reputation algorithm will be provided to DApps to allow customized reputation computation
which caters to their business models and needs. DREP System will introduce algorithm templates
specifically designed for the following industries, including but not limited to:


E-commerce



Online Q&A



Blog



Forum



Entertainment (video, music, gaming, etc.)

In addition, DREP will also develop a third-party algorithm library platform with the aim of
encouraging developers and DApps to develop their own algorithms and making them opensource. DREP will provide economic incentives for developers contributing their third-party
algorithms to the platform.

Reputation Monetization Mechanism
DREP believes that reputation can be monetized. Users with good reputation in the system will be
able to receive DREP tokens or rewards provided by third party platforms, effectively monetizing
users’ reputation data that is stored on-chain.

Reputation Value Account Management and Fake Account Identification
Mechanism
Through DREP ID, DREP’s reputation system connects every DApp platform and thus connect
every user who has reputation value. DREP will strictly manage the reputation value accounts for
users in the ecosystem:


Users can only accumulate reputation values on unique public key addresses and store
them on the blockchain within each DApp.



DREP facilitates every partnering DApp in the accurate categorization, screening and
authorization of their users. DREP also supports DApps in providing users with
customized services or economic incentives.



Privacy management: users have the right to manage their reputation value and choose
whether to authorize the platform to disclose their reputation value to other DApps and
other users.

The DREP team will continuously research and improve fake account identification mechanisms.
With the evolution of the Internet, greater popularity of blockchain and increasing assimilation of
new technologies such as the Internet of Things with the Internet, fake account identification
mechanisms need to be enhanced accordingly.
Through reputation value recognition threshold, Sybil attack prevention mechanism and
integration with third-party KYC platforms, DREP aims to minimize the number of fake accounts
and encourage users to maintain their reputation and image.

32

DREP WHITEPAPER

3.4.2 Advantages of DREP Reputation System
Universality
The Reputation Protocol is not designed for any single platform, but caters to different industries
with different templates featuring cross-platform and data integration. User loyalty can be
obtained only by adjusting the details according to the industry/platform. Eventually, users may
opt to share data within their own scope, thus reducing the cost of data acquisition.

Time-effectiveness
DREP reputation is time-efficient in terms of user behavior, that is, the longer ago something
happened, the smaller impact it would have on reputation, thus encouraging daily active usage,
and increasing users’ dependence on the platform.
Reputation time-effectiveness, through reputation pipeline, is reflected in the daily or
instantaneous user reputation changes. The calculation of reputation time-effectiveness is based on
the reputation decay acquisition model proposed by DREP dev team. As shown in the following
figure, a user ceases using an application after 3 days, resulting in a reputation loss (The blue line
is acquired reputation while the red line is accumulated reputation):

Reputation decays slowly in the early stages and quickly over time, rapidly plunging to a lower
value in the later stages. The next time this user activates the same app, the reputation value will
commence from the lower value and not start from 0.

Closed-loop Ecosystem
The DREP Reputation Protocol is not only of great importance for enterprise clients but also
beneficial for individual users. Through reputation collection, it is able to offer customized
preferential treatment, further promoting engagement and consumption, thus forming a closedloop ecosystem.

33

DREP WHITEPAPER

3.4.3 Reputation System Complements and Enhances ID
The DREP Reputation Protocol does more than supplement, enrich and replace the traditional
points system. The ecosystem of different applications will eventually collectively contribute to
the users’ reputation image.
Obtaining information from one application is insufficient to portray a user’s complete image and
interests. To facilitate targeted recommendation and marketing, various data points such as
reputation image summarized from multiple applications as well as user’s interest and habits
extracted through big data analysis could be utilized. This method would be comprehensive and
avoids privacy infringement.

34

DREP WHITEPAPER

DREP Tokenomics
DREP issued a total of 10 billion tokens. The distribution plan for tokens is as follows:




Ecosystem development and utility scenarios: 18%
Community and developer incentives: 15%
Token private sale / pre-sale / public offering: 27.2%
Vesting Schedule:
Apr. 26th 2019 - 10%
Jun. 25th 2019 - 15%
After swap to DREP MainNet Coins - 75%






IEO: 10%
Team: 17%
Foundation: 12%
Advisors: 0.8%

The utility scenarios of DREP tokens in the DREP ecosystem mainly include:

Network Gas;

The only means of payment for cross-chain transactions between sub-chains (DApps);

Payment currency for all data relevant transactions in the network;

Major currency used for presales of assets in the DREP SDK and the application of
Launchpad;

Mortgage assets in the DREP Client for credit commission and structured financial
product transactions;

The only in-game payment method and trading assets in future DREP games.

35

