Whitepaper

From the depths of the Binance Smart Chain,
for the sake of privacy, Ebirah rises

ebirah.io

ABSTRACT

Every transaction history or balance is public by
design. It’s always possible to track them via block
explorers e.g. Etherscan or BscScan. With a specific
address, anyone can view your history of payments
from the very first source and throughout the whole
process. Everything from your holdings to your onchain actions is transparent.
However, privacy can be necessary to achieve
financial freedom, and there are cases when you
might not want to share your data with the public.
Anonymity is very possible and to make it a part of
your work doesn’t have to mean imitating the

centralized system.

ABSTRACT

Transparency along with an honest approach are the
pillars of this project. We believe that most privacy
oriented solutions could benefit from a helpful tool
that allows restricted data sharing. While users get to
protect their privacy and financial freedom, they still
avoid becoming a part of the centralized system.
Ebirah is a compliance-related tool. If you ever have
to reveal the origins or sources of your assets, you
can provide a cryptographically verified proof of
every transaction ever made.
At the same time, Ebirah is a non-custodial privacy

solution, this means that you are the one to decide
whether to reveal your transactions to a third party
or keep your data private.

METHODOLOGY

With Ebirah, you can send cryptocurrency or tokens
anonymously via a non-custodial technology, that is
based on strong cryptography.
Ebirah breaks the on-chain link between the recipient
and the destination addresses. By using a smart
contract it improves privacy of your transactions. The
contract accepts token deposits that can later be
withdrawn by another address. When a new address
is used to withdraw a token, there is no direct link
between said withdrawal and the deposit. So all
transaction data stays private.

Ebirah is an equivalent of a proxy, ensuring that the
transaction is anonymous with zk-Snarks proofs.

METHODOLOGY

Sweet? That’s not all under the hood.
What we are using:
● zk-Snarks
● Multitransfers and transaction clouds
● Cross-chain brides to eliminate any tracks
● Partnership with miners to get fresh avocado coins
● Cosmos Network integration

TOKENOMICS

500k EBRH maximum supply

15% | 75k

Private sale 0.031 BNB per token

45% | 225k

Public sale 0.034 BNB per token

25% | 125k

PancakeSwap listing 0.04 BNB per token

10% | 50k

Team tokens locked for additional features development

5% | 25k

Marketing and listings

FEES

Up to 5% depending on the complexity of the mixing
method.
50% of fees go to a dedicated price floor increasing
model.
25% buys EBRH on PancakeSwap,
25% matches the EBRH and adds it on to the
liquidity pool via contract, where it is locked
forever.
Remaining 50% of fees go towards covering
architecture costs and maintaining cross-chain pool
reserves.

ROADMAP

Beta app release Q1 2021
MVP release with smart contract audit Q2 2021
Cross chain mixing Q2-Q3 2021
Cosmos Network Integration Q4 2021

TEAM

Eugeni Koinoff
Blockchain developer,
TON and MakerDao contest multiple winner,
co-founder Seculab (http://seculab.eu/en)
and Delerex

Gena Koveshnikov
Blockchain and backend developer,
CTO Delerex

Konstantin Alekseev
Full Stack Developer

Stanislav Lopatiev
Full Stack Developer

CONTACTS

ebirah.io
twitter.com/ebirahOfficial
t.me/ebirahAnnouncements
t.me/ebirahСhat

