White Paper

Table Of Contents
2

Abstract

3

Introduction

4

Potential of crypto and DeFi

6

Yield Farming - A note

8

Verox Explained

9

Token distribution

19

Disclaimer

24

ABSTRACT
OVERVIEW
The perfect use of
Technology

Are you thinking of trading or investing in
cryptocurrencies? You may be worried that it is nothing
but ‘risk’, which may be stopping you. Making a profit is
the basic goal of investment or trading but the
inconsistent nature of cryptocurrencies raises huge risks.
Usually, investors seek the advice of analysts and not every
decision ends up in success.
Here is how you can make excellent returns with your
crypto. With Verox you can analyze any chosen token and
find the best up-to-date DeFi and crypto investments
available on the market. Whether it’s a recommended
swap on Uniswap, a leveraged long/ short position on ftx,
or a spot btc/altcoin buy, Verox uses artificial intelligence
to scan thousands of cryptocurrencies and massive sets of
databases in search of the optimal investments.

Artificial intelligence can do wonders with data forecasting. Based on past and present data, the
future can be predicted. As the predictive analytics of AI is based purely on data, decision
making becomes easier.
Verox offers you the clever strategies that will help you earn more cryptocurrencies by putting
your crypto at the disposal of the best liquidity pools in the market. Verox investors can make
use of the Verox platform to maximize their gains by holding VRX tokens and earn high interest
on their holdings. The Decentralized Finance is the Wild West of the current investment market
and Verox will help you to land in the best platforms to put your crypto tokens to work.
Verox has built a multidisciplinary, extremely ambitious and passionist team, combining experts
from the fields of data science, machine learning, software engineering and experienced
professional crypto investors and traders with many years in the sector.

3

Introduction
The total crypto market cap has passed the $1 trillion for the first time ever in January 2021.
Considering the recent uptick in the market value of bitcoin and cryptocurrencies, the
cryptocurrency space has attracted significant attention, where some people consider them
as actual currencies and others as investment opportunities. Analyzing and researching
currencies on a daily basis in a bit to find the best investment opportunities, has always been
a tough mission, which consumes a lot of time and requires a lot of knowledge and
experience in the field.
That’s where Verox steps in. With its unique investment solution and the first of its kind
backed by AI, Verox aims to bring the benefits of investing in the crypto space to everyday
people and crypto enthusiasts alike.
“Artificial intelligence is to trading what fire was to the cavemen.” That’s how a key industry
player described the impact of a disruptive technology on said industry. In other words, AI is
a game changer for the crypto market.
While humans remain a big part of the trading equation, AI plays an increasingly significant
role. According to a recent study by U.K. research firm Coalition, electronic trades account
for almost 45 percent of revenues in cash equities trading. And while hedge funds are more
reluctant when it comes to automation, many of them use AI-powered analysis to get investment ideas and build portfolios.

4

Our Mission

Verox was created out of a clear need to guide beginners
and professionals alike on the hottest investments in
the crypto field. Verox will save investors’ time and effort
searching and analyzing a lot of cryptocurrencies in the
hopes of finding the next ‘moonshot’.
We aim to help people get excellent returns by putting
their money in a trustworthy AI investment management
that supports faster, more confident decisions to achieve
better performance.

Our Vision

Verox envisions the huge growth of crypto and
decentralized finance in the current market and in the
near future. The goal is to serve people by outdating the
drawbacks of centralized traditional finance ecosystems,
and to become most used digital platform for all of one
crypto and defi financial needs.

Our Background

Verox CEO is a seasoned expert with more than seven
years of experience trading and investing in crypto
professionally. He’s equally a prominent figure in the
crypto community, popular for his largely pinpoint
accuracy with trading recommendations. He’s joined by
other pro crypto traders and investors with several years of
experience to form a multidisciplinary team of extremely
ambitious and passionate people.
The amazing team behind Verox consists of a group of
dedicated experts across various fields like data science,
AI, software engineering among other domains. The team
has previously worked on several projects to success.

5

The potential of Crypto and DeFi

Decentralized Finance or DeFi is an open and permissionless finance system, which is way
better than the existing systems in the market today. As it is open and permissionless, there
is no centralized authority governing it and literally, anyone can join the community without
any restrictions. Verox takes the fruit of DeFi to everyone including people who are
unbanked or who are from underdeveloped nations. There is no requirement for you to
indulge yourself in DeFi based financial systems. All you need to have is a smartphone and
an internet supply. Out of the total world’s population, only 0.6% are aware of
cryptocurrencies and they enjoy the perks of crypto wallets as well. And still, 1.6% of the
world’s population do not even have banking access. Verox needs to somehow change this
and is successful so far with its efforts. Having unbanked people clearly depicts the failure of
traditional finance systems in the market.
Since DeFi applications are deployed on top of the blockchain networks, they inherit the
characteristics of blockchain, most notably transparency, and security. With DeFi, the
governance of the financial systems is no tedious with the help of smart contracts. There is
no chance for dispute since there is legal evidence of data. The use of DeFi also enhances
transparency, and data ownership, thereby offering advantages over the conventional
systems.

6

What is so special about DeFi?
Cryptocurrency has been the best use case of blockchain technology so far. But the advent
of DeFi over the course of time has changed this. DeFi has a lot of potential day-to-day use
cases that made revolutions in the finance and investment sectors. DeFi leads the market
when it comes to the provision of liquidity. DeFi applications involve no custodians and are
permissionless. Yield farming is one of the notable DeFi applications that makes a relentless
way for passive income. using permissionless liquidity protocols. Verox allows people to earn
passive income with their crypto assets through a decentralized ecosystem built on the
ethereum blockchain.

“Don’t make your assets sit idle,
instead put them to work with Verox”

7

A note on Yield Farming
Though there are a lot of ways to earn passive income in the market, nothing can head on to
compete with the genuineness and transparency of cryptocurrencies. This is why
cryptocurrencies are always at the trend though they are volatile. Though crypto is new and
is been in existence only for a decade, people keep their complete trust in it, because it is
easier and safer than the existing ways. The traditional investment schemes had broken the
promise of 40% monthly returns. So, people started adopting new strategies, especially yield
farming that offers 3 digit returns. The crypto players either big or small get a chance to win.
Yield farming by definition is getting rewarded for holding your crypto assets. Yield farming
functions almost like staking but they actually are not similar. Staking involves holding your
crypto assets in a web wallet and getting paid for it. But the vision of yield farming is much
wider. The user adds liquidity to the pool. The person who adds liquidity is called Liquidity
Providers (LPs) and the collection of funds is called Liquidity pool. The collected liquidity is
used for market-making and the liquidity providers ger rewards for providing liquidity.

8

What is Verox?

Verox is the first-ever digital platform for all in one crypto and defi financial needs. It’s a
personalized advisor, product analyzer, and financial content provider. Verox uses AI to create
a personalized match between the user’s financial needs and the best-suited, most
cost-effective financial products. It analyzes any chosen token and finds the best investments
in real-time in crypto, defi, and other markets, by scanning markets and processing massive
sets of data to locate the optimal trading/investing opportunities.

9

The power and growth of AI
Bank interest rates are negative or close to zero within the EU. And with alternative
tech-driven investment solutions taking centre-stage, AI is increasingly changing the
financial landscape. AI is being used to improve and enhance the investment model for
investment firms, becoming the preferred tool to gain a competitive edge. It’s the new
frontier for investment management and finance companies – but what is AI and what does
it entail?

What is Artificial Intelligence?
While there’s no universally accepted definition, AI refers in general to the ability of machines
to exhibit human-like intelligence and a degree of autonomous learning.

10

Verox and AI, How it works?
Verox is a platform that processes massive diverse sets of data By gathering and processing
data gleaned from various sources (news articles, social media postings, financial statements,
charts) and runs a variety of predictive models to come up with defi-ranking rating. With the
help of AI, the company recommends the daily top defi tokens using pattern recognition
technology and a price forecasting engine.
Verox find the optimal and best investment in real time in defi and yield farming, by
scanning markets to locate optimal trading/investing opportunities. It uses AI to allow its
users to “mitigate risk while knowing in real-time the potential for returns.
It can provide up-to-date information on product movement throughout the supply chain,
analysis of weather forecasts and outline search engine topics, then use this information to
determine a profitable investing strategy
If the system identifies a trend that is not followed by the market, our software applies a
counterstrategy to solve the situation on a real‐time basis, adapting to the new scenario.
During this non‐stop analysis, research and optimization process, all new movements and
patterns are stored to be used in up‐coming scenarios, helping solve future market
situations.
The A.I system is constantly monitored, updated and overseen by a team of experienced
traders and coders. This ensures that human intuition and foresight are not removed from
the product offering, rather only the inherent emotional risk with discretionary trading.
The Verox Digital Wealth Management application will rationalize the entire defi investment
process. The parameter-driven customization features deliver a solution with a unique level
of flexibility to meet your needs.

11

The resulting information on each cryptocurrency is then deeply analysed using diversified
parameters. First, technical analysis using a combination of technical indicators and methods
such as moving averages, pivot points, Fibonacci levels, momentum indicators, chart
patterns recognition, etc. Further fundamental analysis is conducted using development
news, overall team strength, social media postings, and a numeric price prediction engine
based on historical price data.
As an AI-powered DeFi and crypto portfolio manager, the potential for adoption is clearly
massive for Verox

12

How far is AI in trading/investing forecasting
reliable?
Talking about the reliability factor, machines alone cannot make the best choice or here, the
decision! Human intelligence and artificial intelligence can together make wonders. The
forecasting can help potential investors and traders to make smart decisions based on
intelligent insights.

The combined efforts of the human
brain and AI is known as hybrid
intelligence!

Human expertise is fused with AI for extra-human abilities in speed, data-crunching power,
accuracy, and broadened overall market understanding. This hybridization creates powers of
insight never before possible in crypto investment, allowing our investors to enjoy
heightened access, performance, confidence, and transparency.
Machine learning follows an algorithm and similarly, our human brains also follow one. The
skillset of these two varies, computers can beat the world’s best chess player but the
emotions or perception cannot be achieved as humans do. So, the complementary abilities
of human intelligence and AI can make a hybrid model.
Verox is using hybrid intelligence to help or advise traders to make smart trading. These
forecasting techniques are presently used in different industries. The advanced models of
hybrid intelligence will be the next big thing to witness in the future.

13

Why choose Verox?
Investing your hard-earned money is important than saving it. Saving your assets will not let
them grow, rather their value decreases over the time horizon. Verox helps you find proper
liquidity pools in the market that offer great returns through the use of bespoken technologies. Though there are some genuine investment systems that help the traders with the right
trading signals, the process does not seem to be fair. They act as intermediaries between the
traders and the assets. With Verox, the investors can enjoy complete control over their assets
as there are no third-party involved in the entire process.

14

High Accuracy
We aim for absolute accuracy and constant transparency. Verox processes massive diverse
sets of data by gathering and processing data gleaned from various sources (crypto data
sites, news articles, social media postings, financial statements, charts,...) and runs a variety
of predictive models and deep learning algorithms to come up with crypto & defi-ranking
rating.

Verox is innovative
Using AI and developed machine learning models, The platform recommends the daily top
crypto & defi tokens and provide deep analysis to any chosen cryptocurrency using
diversified parameters combining technical analysis such as charts patterns recognition,
fundamental analysis (development news, team rating, social media posts,...) and a
history-based price forecasting engine.

High-interest rates
Earn VRX while you sleep. Staking puts your assets to work, with high annual interest rates.
Verox offers the best interest rates in the market when compared to the leading
cryptocurrency exchanges and staking pools. Verox offers high degree of transparency and
anonymity. You can enjoy complete control over your assets. Stake them and take them
whenever you like as there is no threshold period for holding.

15

A revolution in investment

The traditional investment systems depend on third-party payment processors or other
financial institutions for their operation. Verox requires no arbitration from third parties and
is independently operable. In the case of traditional financial systems, the resolution for
controversial issues has to be taken by the judicial bodies. This increases the complexity of
the process. Since Verox is decentralized, everything is automated by smart contracts and
there is no room for controversies. A smart contract is nothing but a magical piece of code
deployed on the ethereum virtual machine to automate a particular task and the task here is
the collection of liquidity and distribution of rewards. The process is so genuine and
error-free as there is no human intervention.
With Verox comes the next big thing in crypto. Verox lets human expertise meet artificial
intelligence. The A.I system is constantly monitored, updated, and overseen by a team of
experienced crypto traders and coders. Human expertise is fused with AI for above human
abilities in speed, data-crunching power, accuracy, and broadened overall market
understanding. This hybridization creates powers of insight never before possible in crypto
and defi investment, allowing our investors to enjoy heightened access, performance,
confidence, and transparency.

16

What happens in the liquidity pool?
You all know that adding liquidity to the pool will get you rewards. But do you know what
exactly happens behind the scene? What do the pools do with the liquidity you offer? In
layman’s terms, the funds in the liquidity pool are used for lending. Also, there will be
borrowers who use these funds for market making. Here the funds are transferred from a
person without any use case to the person who is in desperate need of it. This is the wise use
of assets rather than making them sit idle in the wallets. The amount of work done by your
crypto assets in the market increases.
In earlier days, there were only a couple of ways to earn from the crypto assets. Either trading
or mining. Mining cryptocurrencies is no easy task. You need a lot of computational power to
mine. Mining is nothing but the validation of blocks in the blockchain. Whenever a
transaction occurs, it has to be validated before appending it in the blockchain. This
validation is done by the miners and for which they are rewarded with native
cryptocurrencies of the blockchain. This is what we call a Proof of Work consensus. Mining
also escalates the electricity costs. Trading crypto assets also requires proper analysis of the
market trends. When you do not buy the right assets at the right time, your crypto journey
might come to an end. Verox provides an opportunity for the crypto players to earn from
crypto assets other than mining and trading.

17

Liquidity locking Explained
Verox offers locked liquidity to please the investors and gain their trust. Here is what liquidity
locking in simple terms. When a liquidity provider adds liquidity to the pool, he receives pool
tokens in return to represent their stake in the pool. This pool token can be redeemed for the
locked tokens at any time. This means that liquidity providers can remove liquidity anytime.
After the liquidity is removed, if that particular token is not listed in any other exchanges, the
buyers cannot sell the tokens anywhere, meaning they are scammed. The scammers could
create a new token, promote them, and provide huge liquidity to the pool. This large
liquidity makes the buyers believe that the token has a healthy market and tract them to
buy. Once they bought a good number of tokens, the scammers might remove liquidity all of
a sudden and take away all the ETH in the pool.
To avoid this, the concept of liquidity locking was introduced. When the liquidity is locked,
the tokens in the pool are bounded by time restrictions. Until the threshold time, the tokens
cannot be redeemed, i.e. the market is available for the next few months. Verox uses a similar
concept in the liquidity pools. This boosts the confidence of the investors and portrays Verox
as a genuine and trustworthy platform in the market.

18

Use of Proceeds

Token Distribution

19

Tokenomics

Contract Address
0x87DE305311D5788e8da38D19bb427645b09CB4e5

20

Roadmap

November 2020

21

•

Vision & Comprehensive Project Research — How to create a solid qualityfocused and friendly-user product and to apply the token’s best economic
factors

•

Recruitment of team —We built a multidisciplinary, extremely ambitious
and passionist team combining experts from diverse fields, with a proven
track record.

•

Planning: BRD, SRF, FSD

•

Legalization and regulation

•

Creation of smart contract

•

Deployment of token

•

Smart contract audit

December 2020

22

•

Website Launch + whitepaper

•

Beginning of pre-sale stage

•

Smart Marketing — using unconventional marketing & promoting methods
and strategies to create awareness, trust and community growth

•

Airdrop and giveaways for the community

•

Partnering with the top agency for crypto marketing & PR — flexe.io

•

Listed on more than 20 Presales trackers. Marked as “hot” and ranked
second place on the 2nd most searched ICOs/Presales website on
google icohotlist

•

Reached out by the legendary Business Consultant & Strategist, top digital
Marketer and angel Investor Brian D. Evans — Inc.500 Entrepeuner

•

Exponential growth on social media (25k twitter followers + 2800 telegram
group members)

•

Creating promotional and instructional videos in different languages
Mentioned by the top crypto influencers (Such as @VEGETACRYPTO1 ,
@ CryptoNekoZ , @JoshRoomsburg ,… )

•

Start of Designing Verox app

•

Developing AI and machine learning algos

•

Partnership with Hotbit for immediate exchange listing after presale stage

January 2021
•
•
•
•

Hybrid Intelligence: Complementing AI Systems with Human Intelligence
Cointelegraph Press Release and increasing marketing
Development & Testing — React Native, NODE.JS
Staking Dapp

February 2021
•
•
•
•

DEX & CEX Exchanges listing + Providing & Locking liquidity for minimum
one year
Feature on coinmarketcap, coingecko, coinpare,…
Strategic partnerships (including partnerships with oracle analytics
applications)
Deployment of Verox app

March - April 2021
•
•
•
•
•

23

Launch of Verox app Android & IOS
Verox web application
Massive app digital marketing
Integrating VRX payments in Verox app
Planning Future developments

Presale Details
•
•

1 ETH = 60 VRX
The presale will continue until the 35000th token is sold.

Disclaimer
This material should not be taken as the basis for making investment
decisions, nor be construed as a recommendation to engage in
investment transactions. Trading digital assets involves significant risk and
can result in the loss of your invested capital. You should ensure that you
fully understand the risk involved and take into consideration your level of
experience, investment objectives and seek independent financial advice
if necessary.

24

