ESBC Team:
CryptoToni (Team Lead)
🆂🅺🅰🆉🆄🅽 (Blockchain Developer)
Hentai (Web Developer)
February 2019

1

Content
Introduction
Gratitude
Reliable algorithm
Developers for community
Technical characteristics of Blockchain
The Betting Platform
Description of anonymous betting
The economic system
Design and visualization
Social community and feedback

2

Introduction
Nowadays online betting has quite drastic issues: in particular, major members of the market do
not want to adapt to new trends and technologies, neither do they want to perform open and
transparent operation(s). That is why our team of developers is (are) working on a brand new
project. Our direction of development has been formed in such a way that we can provide the
average better with the following conveniences:
• Anonymity
• Minimal number of third parties in betting
• Speed and decentralization
• Low commission due to the rejection of traditional financial systems

All of these conditions are successfully implemented with the help of blockchain technology.
Consequently, creating ESBC, we also set up the best conditions for those users who are already
fans of betting and cryptocurrencies.

Gratitude
ESBC wouldn’t have been created without the work already performed by the teams of Bitcoin,
Dash, PIVX. Software with an open source code is so valuable, because the product can be
improved and updated thanks to innovations of new active users. Consequently, developers
encourage any initiative, fight for transparency and freedom of information and believe, that open
codes are highly efficient. We’re thankful to our predecessors for an opportunity to contribute to
this growing ecosystem and to develop it in a new way for society.

3

Reliable algorithm
Every modern project needs a trustful source code. ESBC is based on the XDNA source code. It is also
a child of the popular cryptocurrency PIVX which is a fork of the cryptocurrency that created
masternode system – DASH. While the origin can be traced back to Bitcoin source code, each project
has chosen a particular direction with aims and ideals needed by the community, which the project
ESBC was created for. We are going to expand and pay special attention to the confidential features
of our predecessors’ coin by the means of learning new technologies and, meanwhile, creating
instruments and possibilities for integration of ESBC into modern technological platforms.

Developers for community
The community orientation is the main characteristic of the project itself. It clearly shows the
significance of our clients’ interests in the system of priorities of the project’s developers and
creators. The community orientation is an instrument which allows us to get loyal clients and their
loyal attitude. Usage of these instruments requires intellectual and financial investments but also
gives a chance to get a perfect product in the end.

4

Blockchain
Technical specifications of ESBC
Consensus Algorithm: PoS
P2P port : 32322
Block time : 60 / 120 seconds - After April update
Algorithm of difficulty: Dark Gravity Wave v3.0
Block size : 1 MB / 2MB - After April update
PoS Maturity : 240 minutes
Transaction confirmations : 6 block
Feature : 4 level collateral, SwiftX
Protocol Support : IPV4, IPV6, TOR
Collateral levels : Bronze / Silver / Gold / Platinum
Collaterals size : 5 000 / 25 000 / 50 000 / 250 000 ESBC
Max supply: 25 481 245 by 2022 year

Speed and functionality
The average time of finding block creation is 120 seconds. Technology SwiftX allows you to
perform immediate sending of coins without confirmation by new blocks. ESBC seeks to
become a really fast and functional cryptocurrency for (the) bets (betting) and gambling sector.

Masternodes
Masternodes – nodes in cryptocurrencies’ chains, which are responsible for checking and
approval of transactions. They also provide increase in speed of work and users’ security.
Servers and computers with static IP address perform the masternode’s functions. A launched
wallet, full synchronization and 24 hour activity are prerequisites to work. This does not seem
relevant to the project. To launch nodes you are required to have a deposit that equals 5
000/50 000/25 000/250 000 ESBC. Any network member controlling more than 5000 ESBC
can launch a personal Masternode and get rewards. For more information on how to set up a
Masternode please see - Masternode Setup Guide

5

ESBC Betting Platform
The main product inside of ESBC ecosystem is a platform for bets in (betting on)
popular sport(s), including cybersport(s).
The main features of the platform are:
•
•
•
•
•

Registration without identity verification
Guarantee of players’ anonymity
Absence of a third party during financial operations
Loyal attitude to professional cappers
Preferential terms if cryptocurrency ESBC is used

• Registration without identity verification

For convenient use of the platform esbc.pro possibility of registration and logging in with the help of
social networks accounts, such as Discord,Facebook was implemented. Identity verification on our
platform is not required, in contrary to the other popular Online betting companies.
(Players’ personal data is not stored on the platform, and that is why it cannot be transferred to 3d
parties)

• Anonymity

In accordance with the main cryptocurrency’s principle – opportunity to stay anonymous,
platform’s esbc.pro developers implemented these ideals in the basics of platform’s policy.
Already now you can make anonymous bets using ESBC, without login and registration, not need
to verify your identity.

6

• Loyalty to professional cappers
We have analyzed the problem of classical betting companies and their methods of fighting
against professional gamblers (forkers, statistics analysis supporters, bets on the corridors, etc.),
and our team has chosen a concept of maximum loyalty to any betting methods on the base of
platform esbc.pro to attract as much audience as possible.

• Absence of third parties
In order to provide anonymity, convenience and reduced player’s expenses, we paid special
attention to the absence of third parties in all cryptocurrency operations on the platform. The use
of cryptocurrencies prevents possible leakage of the information about users’ activity.

• Margin and commission
One of the methods to improve the competitive characteristics is reducing of bookmaker’s
margin and commissions for deposit and withdrawal of cryptocurrencies. The use of
cryptocurrencies allows to deposit, bet, withdraw coins from the platform and get the winning
within less than a minute. Low commission rates provide better coefficients in comparison with
the old platforms using the old financial system.

• Betting exchange (in progress)
Betting exchange is a platform for betting between players on sports events. There, a player can
suggest betting – choosing a particular event, then offer his/her coefficient and the sum of bet on
a particular result (in this case you sell the bet, acting like a bookmaker). Or you can accept the
betting conditions offered by other players – to buy the betting. This way a player becomes a
participant of the purchase process, where betting odds are goods. Consequently, sports betting
exchange is a mediator, providing the players with a service for such purchase. All deals are
performed on the betting exchange without commissions.

7

Description of anonymous betting process:
When creating betting odds, a separate address for every possible odds is generated (first team’s
victory, second team’s victory, draw, totals, etc.). After that a user choses anonymity option and
gets a wallet address where he is required to send coins to bet. After the match, reward will be sent
to that address. For the most anonymous coins (cryptonight) the system works differently: a user
designates an address for getting the winning, then a unique address for determination and an
identifier of the payment are generated to check if the bet was really sent from this user. If the team
being bet wins, winning will be sent to an address indicated by a user. Anonymous betting will be
available for the huge number of cryptocurrencies.

8

The economic system
ESBC presents a 4 tier masternode system:

• Bronze - 5 000 ESBC
• Silver - 25 000 ESBC
• Gold - 50 000 ESBC
• Platinum - 250 000 ESBC
The difference in sizes of rewards is dynamic, about 4%. The four-tier masternode deposit system
simplifies the own node’s launch for the users, minimizing expenses for extra resources and time
during launches of further nodes.

Stable growth of ESBC
One of the most criticized objects in sports gambling with the use of cryptocurrencies is exactly
the volatility cryptocurrencies. Focusing on this problem as the prior one during the development
of the economic scheme, drastic deflation of the coins was planned, as it will positively influence
their price, ensuring the stability of the platform’s players’ deposits. On April, 2019 block time in
blockchain will be changed from 60 to 120 sec, to increase stability and decrease emission, every 6
months thereafter the reward will be halved. The total amount of coins released by 2022 will be 25
481 245. To add other betting coins to the platform, you will have to pay commission in ESBC –
this way the developers who would like to see their coins will be required to buy the ESBC on
Exchanges.

9

Design and visualization
Through research and development, we aim to create a visual design for ESBC that distinguishes it
from competitors in the cryptographic market. Our development team plans to innovate and
experiment with the current UI / UX / Branding to eventually achieve excellence that will set an
example for other projects. It is made from the research of our competitors, we use modern
technological trends and standards, constantly applying new and exciting visual effects to our project.

ESBC Wallet
2 design templates

10

Social networks and feedback
At the moment the main platform for our community is Discord. You can join our Discord
server and communicate with the members of community, find out their opinion about the
project. Also, there’s a bot with a wallet function, integrated into Discord, to make payments
in our community easier.
Bitcointalk - one of the oldest and biggest Internet forums dedicated to blockchain and
cryptocurrencies. All announcements are published here on the official ESBC thread, along
with discussion from the ESBC community.
Telegram - in this messenger we have created: news channel and Telegram-chats:
International chat
Russian community
Spanish community
The discussion is focused on the latest news in the field of cryptocurrencies and events
within the ESBC project

11

