Table of Contents
1 Executive summary

4

2 The DApp gaming market

5

2.1 Market overview
2.1.1 Games market
2.1.2 DApps
2.1.3 Crypto games

2.2 Challenges
2.2.1 Blockchain entry barrier
2.2.2 Ownership and centralization

3 Mineral solution

11

3.1 Mineral overview
3.2 Accessibility
3.3 Ownership and decentralization
3.4 Next generation blockchain gaming
3.5 Scaling the game item trading market
3.6 Security

4 Five Stars

16

4.1 Overview
4.2 Setup
4.3 Gameplay
4.3.1 Preparation stage
4.3.2 Fighting stage

4.4 Heroes and equipment
4.5 Item trade
4.6 In-game currencies

5 Token
5.1 Token overview
5.2 Token functions
5.3 Token value capture

23

5.3.1 Expansion of the NFT market
5.3.2 Staking
5.3.3 Token burns

5.4 Token advantages

6 Token sale

26

6.1 Token allocation
6.2 Use of funds

7 Business development

28

8 Competitor analysis

29

9 Roadmap

30

10 Company background

31

11 Partners

32

12 Closing statement

39

13 Glossary

40

14 Disclaimer

41

Appendix I - Game contents summary

43

Appendix II - Game contents flow

44

1 Executive summary
Creating a blockchain game that can go viral calls for driving down the technical barriers to entry
while ramping up the quality. Gameplay, storyline, characters, graphics, and originality must all
be excellent, coupled with configuration that enables anyone to play. However, blockchain games
guarantee access and facilitate a thriving secondary market for trading ingame items. Moreover,
they provide a means for these assets to effectively leave the confines of the game in which they
originated, and to be represented in new virtual worlds, where items can be bought, sold, bartered,
collateralized and borrowed against. Finally, because gaming DApps bypass traditional app distribution
stores, they can be accessed virtually anywhere in the world, giving players the confidence to invest
time in building up characters and crafting items, in the knowledge that they will always be able
to retrieve and exchange them at a future date wherever they are.
Unfortunately, a series of issues have so far hindered this segment of the cryptosphere from
reaching its full potential. This includes the various logistical, financial and technical barriers to
entry associated with the blockchain, issues with scaling, and concerns over ownership and the
security of in-game digital assets that have significant real-world value. Without a solution to
these fundamental problems, blockchain gaming would likely be doomed to remain stuck in its
present form, unable to progress.
Seeing this problem, a team comprising some of the most respected game developers in the
industry came together to form Mineral Hub with the aim of enabling ordinary gamers to engage
with and enjoy blockchain games. The team"s solution is to develop a series of games that can
generate and assign keys and wallets to players automatically, can be played without any cryptocurrency, have no initial transaction fees, are not limited by transaction speeds, and are of a
quality that is equal to or exceeds that of commercial games.
To catalyze the blockchain gaming industry and allow it to bloom, Mineral Hub is launching an
eponymous token that has an array of applications. A KCT built on the Klaytn blockchain, MNR
will serve as the primary currency within the Mineral ecosystem. In time, adoption will grow as
MNR comes to power a suite of immersive, and highly playable blockchain games. To kickstart
this process, Five Stars, a new blockchain game from Mineral Hub, will serve as the proof-ofconcept
for MNR.
Five Stars is a turn-based RPG DApp game produced by Mineral Hub that will run on theKlaytn
blockchain. Players can use the MNR to make purchases within the game"s built-in marketplace.
To further drive adoption of MNR, this flagship game will show the strengths of blockchain gaming,
with superior graphics and gameplay complemented by a tokenized ecosystem and trading, spawning a thriving economy all built around MNR.

4

2 The DApp gaming market
2.1 Market overview
Blockchain and gaming have a long history born from shared synergies. Both industries tap into
a demographic comprising a young and tech-savvy audience that is receptive to new ideas and
innovation. It is no coincidence that many of cryptocurrency"s staunchest adopters have been
gamers. Nor is it coincidental that one of the first industries to be tokenized and to have its assets
placed on-chain should prove to be gaming.
Blockchain games can be traced all the way back to Bitcoin"s earliest days when sites like Satoshi
Dice provided a means to wager on-chain. This was one of the first use cases for bitcoin, and
while the industry has long since transcended hi-low dice games, it remains deeply enmeshed
with gaming in all its forms. From simple puzzles to elaborate fantasy titles, RPGs, and battle games,
blockchain gaming has developed to assume many forms.
Placing data on-chain is computationally expensive, obliging developers to make economic
compromises, constraining what could otherwise be achieved. Furthermore, while the interface
that came with retro consoles was easy for even beginners to master, blockchain games are more
complex, requiring a degree of technical sophistication. Players who can wield an Xbox or PS4
controller effortlessly have to start afresh with blockchain technology, which calls for learning the
basics of private-public key pairs, mnemonic phrases, and adjusting to the latency of transactions
being recorded on-chain.
Technical barriers serve as a deterrent to broader adoption of blockchain games, but they are not
the only reason why no crypto-based games have yet to achieve critical mass: lack of quality has
also been a contributing factor. To date, developers have devised an array of quirky and entertaining
blockchain games, but the wait for a “killer” release goes on.
Given the high bar to creating a highly accessible and enduring blockchain game, whose appeal
is not merely limited to crypto converts, it is necessary to consider why this vertical exists in the
first place. Blockchain games are not the product of a technology in search of a use case. Their
initial implementations may have arisen as a means of experimenting with the tech, but it quickly
became apparent that blockchain provides some unique capabilities that solve problems inherent
to traditional online and console-based games.
The same censorship-resistance that makes Bitcoin so powerful can equally be applied to games,
not so as to combat overt censorship, but to indelibly store assets. As a result, ingame items,
characters, and unique content that players have spent countless hours nurturing can be permanently stored, eliminating the problem of virtual worlds, customizations and content being

5

removed without warning on the whim of game developers, or being restricted through arbitrary
geographical constraints. In the past, software houses have gone bust, taking entire franchises
down with them, and leaving players high and dry. Blockchain enables games and the ecosystem
they have spawned to live on, in perpetuity.

2.1.1 Games market
The global gaming market is experiencing a period of sustained growth that is showing no signs
of slowing down. There are now over 2.5 billion gamers around the world, spending $152 billion
on games and driving year on year growth of around 10%.¹ Whether playing on console, PC, tablet
or smartphone, gamers are finding more ways than ever before to engage with the gaming industry.
This has helped to drive a sustained boost to gaming revenues that will see the industry hit $196
billion in sales over the next three years.²

PC

$ 35.7Bn

MOBILE

$ 68.5Bn

+4.0% YoY

+10.2% YoY

9%

23%

2%

BROWSER
PC GAMES

$ 3.5Bn

21%
TABLEY GAMES

$ 13.6Bn
+5.0% YoY

45%

+15.1% YoY

2019 TOTAL

36%

$ 152.1Bn

BOXED
DOWNLOADED
PC GAMES

+9.6%YoY

$ 32.2Bn

32%

(SMART)PHONE GAMES

$ 54.9Bn
+11.6% YoY

+6.6% YoY

32%
CONSOLE

$ 47.9Bn
+13.4% YoY

The 2019 global games market, per device and segment with year-on-year growth rates³

Of the various gaming verticals, the fastest growth is for mobile and tablet devices which are
integral to the consumption of decentralized applications (DApps) and specifically DApp gaming.
The mobile sector of the total gaming market alone is currently worth $68.5 billion, or 45% of the
global market share.⁴ By 2022, mobile gaming (smartphone and tablet combined) will produce
revenues of $95.4 billion, accounting for 49% of the entire games market.

1 https://newzoo.com/insights/articles/the-global-games-market-will-generate-152-1-billion-in-2019-as-the-u-s-overtakes-china-as-the-biggest-market/
2 https://www.gamesindustry.biz/articles/2018-12-17-gamesindustry-biz-presents-the-year-in-numbers-2018
3 https://newzoo.com/insights/articles/the-global-games-market-will-generate-152-1-billion-in-2019-as-the-u-s-overtakes-china-as-the-biggest-market/
4 https://newzoo.com/insights/articles/the-global-games-market-will-generate-152-1-billion-in-2019-as-the-u-s-overtakes-china-as-the-biggest-market/
5 https://resources.newzoo.com/hubfs/2019_Free_Global_Game_Market_Report.pdf?utm_campaign=Games%20Market%20Report&utm_source=hs_automation&utm
_medium=email&utm_content=76474808&_hsenc=p2ANqtz-8TelI0a1lBn5yE3qoUvTFNUVP5qkYacPdZK3-DNbJJ9rNcFy-2PoEjoOyWwREgVbdcaNPEw-QTEkOyY6_9M
P8FvPtp62hjhi74f1X4unI6_4SDdq8&_hsmi=76474808

6

Gaming has been transformed from a pastime that was enjoyed in the home by a subset of
devotees to one which is conducted everywhere by all kinds of people. A recent study showed
that 70% of Americans play some kind of video games, with 90% of those playing on tablet,
smartphone or both.¹
The growth of mobile gaming does not, however, signal the demise of console and PC gaming.
By 2022, the console segment will generate revenues of $61.1 billion in 2022, (CAGR of +9.7%),
while PC gaming will rise to $39.5 billion (CAGR of +3.5%).

2.1.2 DApps
Since 2015, when the total number of decentralized applications (DApps) was barely into double
figures, the number of DApps has exploded into the thousands. One DApp tracking site alone
lists 3,070 DApps across nine blockchains, with the most popular networks comprising Tron, EOS,
and Ethereum. In 2015, the average number of new DApps per month was just over 11, in 2018
that figure reached an average of 130 per month, with December of that year seeing an all-time
high of 172 DApps. In 2019, the market is in good health.
New DApps

New DApps per Month

Total DApps

APR 2015 ~ SEP 2019

New DApps per month.²

As of Q1 in 2019, the four major DApp blockchains, Ethereum, EOS, Steem, and Tron, have hit
a total transaction volume of $3.2 billion.³ EOS and Tron alone have accrued $1 billion. EOS
and TRON also boasted the most active users on their respective blockchains with 262,000
and 303,000 in Q1 respectively.
1 https://variety.com/2018/gaming/news/how-many-people-play-games-in-the-u-s-1202936332/
2 https://www.stateoftheDApps.com/stats; The purple bars shows new DApps this month. The black line shows the total number of DApps.
3 https://www.DApp.com/article/DApp-com-q1-2019-DApp-market-report

7

2.1.3 Crypto games
In terms of utility, gambling and gaming are the two most popular uses for DApps, with gambling
still retaining a slight edge. For sheer user retention, however, gaming, especially on the Ethereum
blockchain, has the advantage. Today, there are over 400 DApp games built on Ethereum alone.¹
Among all DApp users, gamers are the most active vertical, with the most stable and loyal communities. More than 40% of daily active DApp users are gamers, from a total audience share of
only 30%.² Research conducted by DApp.com shows that the number of gaming DApps has
skyrocketed in 2019 across the four main DApp chains (Ethereum, EOS, Steem, and Tron).³ As
of Q1, 2019, DApp games represent around 1% of the overall DApp industry with a value of $35
million⁴

New DApps

New DApps per Month - Games

TOTAL DApps

APR 2015 - SEP 2019

New DApps per month - games.

2.2 Challenges
As noted in section 2.1 of this document, a series of logistical and technical challenges have
hindered the evolution of the DApp games market and prevented the emergence of an exceptional game that integrates blockchain technology in a functional way.

1 https://DAppradar.com/rankings/protocol/ethereum/
2 https://hackernoon.com/q1-2019-DApp-market-report-7aca7cbbccad
3 https://www.DApp.com/article/DApp-com-q1-2019-DApp-market-report
4 https://www.DApp.com/article/DApp-com-q1-2019-DApp-market-report
5 https://www.stateoftheDApps.com/stats/category/games#new

8

2.2.1 Blockchain entry barrier
A large number of games have been created across the main DApp blockchains, and a few have
gained significant traction and a loyal user base. Nevertheless, the blockchain dimension raises
the barrier to entry on a number of fronts.
Most of the existing DApp games require players to generate a private key and to set up a wallet
directly outside of the main game and its functions. Some platforms even require the ownership
of cryptocurrency assets before functional play can begin. At present, approximately 81% of the
global population has never purchased cryptocurrencies in any form.¹ This being the case, the
requirement to engage in the relatively technical processes of setting up crypto storage, purchasing
crypto assets (which typically mandates undergoing KYC), ensuring the security of the crypto assets
owned, and implementing various other necessary procedures deter a large portion of the existing
gaming community from participating.
Some existing DApp games emphasize the blockchain element as the defining feature of the
product. This can result in games that are extremely generic, relying on the inclusion of blockchain
as their unique selling point. An example of this game type is collector games, where the user
purchases “rare” images tied to a tradable non-fungible token (NFT). These titles are unlikely to
appeal to ordinary gamers who do not have any special interest in cryptocurrencies and fail to see
the attraction in a blockchain game that is devoid of any recognizable gameplay.

2.2.2 Ownership and centralization
Many games allow players to collect in-game assets, be that a native currency (Minecraft Coins,
New California Republic dollars or Atoms in the Fallout series, Riot Point coins in League of Legends),
items, skins, texture packs, playable characters, or vehicles. Such items often become highly sought
after within the gaming community and can attain a significant “realworld” market value.²
Many games also allow for the collection of data that translates into some form of advantage for
the player. This could be some form of multiplier bonus, “lvl” or “exp,” a high-score, or skill status.
For many players, it is the acquisition of these achievements which is the most fulfilling element
of gaming. The struggle to overcome adversity and the subsequent claim of some form of trophy
provides a fundamental thrill in gameplay.

1 https://www.kaspersky.com/blog/cryptocurrency-report-2019/
2 https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2018/07/16/meet-gamers-willing-spend-hundreds-thousands-living-video-game/

9

Unfortunately, such in-game assets and player data are usually owned by the entity governing
the game, typically the software house, rather than the players themselves. Should the game close
down for some reason, the company collapse or the people running the game simply choose to
remove the player"s hard-earned assets and delete their data, everything will be irredeemably lost.
This threat looms large over the online gaming community today.
Another troubling aspect of centralized games that involve the purchase and sale of in-game
assets is that the value of items and general market prices are usually determined by the company
rather than players. A famous case of pricing exploitation came with the release of Fallout 76 where
Bethesda (the company behind the Fallout series) was accused of price gouging and creating fake
“original” prices and discounts to inflate demand.¹ Some games also charge exorbitant transaction
fees and wildly disproportionate buy/sell prices on items. Such market conditions have been
cultivated to maximize the profits of games companies by burning the players who support them.

1 https://www.eurogamer.net/articles/2018-12-17-fallout-76-players-say-the-atom-shop-prices-are-getting-out-of-hand

10

3 Mineral solution
3.1 Mineral overview
To solve the issues that currently beset blockchain games, Mineral Hub, a team of developers
behind some of the biggest blockchain games of the last few years, will launch and govern the
Mineral token (MNR). MNR is the primary currency of the Mineral Hub ecosystem. It will act as a
primary currency across multiple games, allowing players to buy and sell in-game items as nonfungible tokens.
As the Mineral ecosystem expands with the development of new games and the creation of new
NFT items, demand for these items will increase commensurate with the number of transactions
made using MNR. The resulting increase in token demand, coupled with the transaction fees collected
by Mineral, will facilitate the further expansion and improvement of the Mineral Hub ecosystem.

3.2 Accessibility
With Mineral, there is no need for players to endure the laborious processes associated with
interacting with the blockchain. Mineral abstracts away the blockchain component to provide
DApp game onboarding that will feel familiar to ordinary gamers.
As mentioned in section 2 of this whitepaper, one of the key barriers to entry for non-cryptosavvy
gamers is the technical and logistical issue of setting up the various components necessary to
deal with the blockchain. Mineral automates the setup process, allowing gamers to bypass these
arduous procedures. Mineral's game automatically generates the wallet address when players
create an in-game account. As a result, players can create their account in a couple of clicks and
begin playing their favorite games.
Existing DApp Games

Mineral DApp Game

Enter the games
Separate account and wallet
generation outside of games

No extra steps to create an account

11

Another common roadblock that dissuades many from participating in blockchain gaming is the
necessity to pre-own crypto assets in order to “buy-in.” This is only possible after overcoming the
technical and logistical initialization hurdles described earlier. Following setup, these players must
traverse another technical challenge in visiting an exchange, acquiring an accepted cryptocurrency,
and transferring it into the game. This challenge is also financial since some amount of funding
is required. Although the amount required may be small, firsttime users may still be reluctant to
hand over their money to have it converted into a digital currency that they do not understand
to play a game that they do not yet know if they will even enjoy playing.
With Mineral, players have no need to pre-own any crypto assets due to Mineral"s entrusting
function. Klaytn allows developers to subsidize the network fees required to onboard users so
that players can begin playing games instantly and without payment, thus removing another
potential barrier to entry. Players need only to pay transaction fees when buying or selling items.
Users can acquire MNR by playing Mineral games, winning items and selling those items for MNR
either via item auctions or through Mineral"s NFT marketplace (see section 4.4 of this whitepaper for
more information on this). In this way, players are rewarded for playing Mineral Hub games and supporting the ecosystem without having to perform an initial “buy-in.”
Players will be able to purchase extra MNR on exchanges with a range of cryptocurrencies. In the
future, players will also be able to purchase MNR with fiat in-game through direct card payments
(see section 7 of this whitepaper for more information).

Game Play

Growth Needs

Sell Item

Obtain C.C.

Growth Re-investment

Buy Item

Need C.C.

Use Exchanges

Use Auction

12

3.3 Ownership and decentralization
As discussed in section 2.2.2, ownership of in-game assets is a major concern for today"s gamers.
Mineral Hub solves this problem by leveraging the immutability of the blockchain. A player can
turn their items into NFT on the blockchain network.
Mineral Hub is creating a diverse series of games, all of which will utilize MNR and across which
all in-game items will be usable. Due to this interoperability, players are not limited to a single
game in which all of their items and tokens are stored. Should a player wish to transfer their ingame assets from Five Stars into another game within the Mineral ecosystem, they can with only
a few clicks.
Finally, unlike other games and platforms that manipulate item prices, players within the Mineral
ecosystem can use MNR to trade freely with each other in real-time. Items will find their true market
value in accordance with the laws of supply and demand.

3.4 Next-generation blockchain gaming
The Mineral will revolutionize blockchain gaming by producing truly high-quality games with
superior graphics and engaging gameplay which integrate the blockchain as a productive tool
that provides genuine utility rather than as a functionless marketing ploy.
As a cross-game token, Mineral incentivizes engagement with all games in the Mineral Hub ecosystem,
allowing players to transfer items between games or sell items in one game to gain MNR that can
be used instantly to purchase items in another. This allows players to seamlessly transition between
games rather than trapping their acquired assets within a single game and disincentivizing them
from playing other games.
Such a combination of high-quality gameplay and thoughtful token economics and value creation
will attract a hybrid user-base of both gamers and cryptocurrency enthusiasts.

Ordinary Gamers

Cryptocurrency Users

Secure diverse user-base through differentiated feature

13

3.5 Scaling the game item trading market
The Mineral will facilitate peer-to-peer item trading and in-game auctions through a dedicated
marketplace. Users can sell items acquired through gameplay for MNR. Once a player has gained
sufficient stores of MNR, either through these sales or through purchase on exchanges, they can
purchase items from the open market to help them progress in the game or simply to serve as
trophies and collectibles.
For example, a player may have reached a level of a Mineral Hub game that they simply cannot
overcome. The enemies that appear at that level are too powerful for the player to beat with their
current playable characters and items. The player has, however, accumulated significant stores of
items from gameplay up to this point. The player sells all of their items to acquire a large quantity
of MNR and goes to the Mineral open market to find an item that will allow them to overcome the
wave of enemies stalling their progress.
Alternatively, the player may not wish to sell their items as they are useful for other parts of the
game. If the player holds crypto assets, they can alternatively go to an exchange and sell some
of these for MNR. In the future, that player will be able to purchase MNR at the current market
rate via direct card payment (see section 7 of this whitepaper). For a detailed overview of how MNR is
can be acquired and spent within the Mineral Hub ecosystem, please see Appendix II.
It is also anticipated that certain Mineral NFTs will become desirable collector"s items. It is well
documented that gamers are willing to spend significant amounts to acquire such items.¹ Particularly
rare NFTs have the potential to become highly sought objects of desire which players are driven
to purchase for pure possession and status rather than for use in-game.²
Acquiring particularly rare items organically through gameplay is often impractical. Where, for
instance, there is a 1:10,000 chance of a defeated enemy dropping the particular rare item and
that enemy takes a significant number of hits to defeat, it is probable that the player would need
to expend thousands of hours playing the game to attain the item. It is often far easier for those
collectors to simply browse the Mineral NFT market or check for the item at auction, and purchase
it that way.
The Mineral will also support item-to-NFT conversions and will facilitate the trade of such NFTs
in Mineral"s external NFT marketplace powered by OpenSea.io. (see section 4.4)

1 https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2018/07/16/meet-gamers-willing-spend-hundreds-thousands-living-video-game/
2 https://nationalpsychologist.com/2007/01/the-psychology-of-collecting/10904.html; http://nationalpsychologist.com/2007/01/the-psychology-ofcollecting/10904
.html;

14

Opensea NFT Market

3.6 Security
Whenever dealing with crypto assets and in-game virtual assets with significant real-world value,
there are concerns over the safety and security of those assets. Mineral will follow all best practices
in terms of security and will take measures to ensure that players" data and virtual assets are
safeguarded.
Mineral Hub will also take measures to ensure security on the player side and mitigate the risk of
fraud or hacking attempts. To combat this, Mineral Hub will allow users to enable Touch ID and
Face ID, thus reinforcing accessibility and security.

15

4 Five Stars
4.1 Overview
Five Stars will be the first game to
launch that makes use of MNR.
Five Stars is a turn-based side scroller
collective roleplaying game(RPG)
for mobile (Android, iOS).

4.2 Setup
A key goal of Mineral is to remove one of the most common barriers to entry associated with
blockchain games, namely the setup of the various components required to acquire and securely
store crypto assets. To solve this issue, The wallet will automatically be generated and supplied to
each player that creates a Five Stars account. This means that the player will be able to begin
playing and earning from the outset and will not be deterred by the complexities of set-up that
have held back the adoption of blockchain games in the past.
During setup, the player will be shown a screen (see image below) where they will be asked to
choose their main character. After choosing their main character, each player will be assigned a
group of other heroes through the “luck box,” a random character assignment function. The style
and progression of the game following this point will vary depending on the character chosen.
As an example, the main “lobby” or home screen will reflect the character choice. The character"s
appearance, aspect, and gait will also change depending on the character"s experience level.

The main character selection screen

16

4.3 Gameplay
Five Stars will feature graphics and in-game features that far outstrip those encountered in the
blockchain games market today. The gameplay of Five Stars can be separated into two distinct
stages: the preparation stage and the fighting stage.

4.3.1 Preparation stage
In the preparation stage, players can select their team of heroes, assign equipment to each hero
(weapons, armor, potions, and a range of other items) and arrange their battle formation. Players
are able to choose up to a maximum of five heroes. New players will be able to choose from a wide
range of base playable characters. As players progress through the game, they will unlock new
playable characters with more advanced abilities/traits which they can then add to their team
(see section 4.4 for more information on this). Depending on the abilities/traits of the heroes selected,
the items assigned to each and their formation, certain synergies can be created. When the player
has chosen their formation, it is time for battle in the fighting stage.

Battle formation screen

4.3.2 Fighting stage
In the fighting stage, each of the player"s team of heroes will take turns to attack or defend in a
sequence of battles against waves of unique enemies. Upon each turn, the player can target a
particular enemy and choose either an attack or a skill for their hero to execute upon that enemy.
Each enemy is distinct and has its own special characteristics. For instance, a particular enemy may
have elevated defenses against certain types of attacks and thus is able to take minimal damage
from a certain hero.
17

The enemy may also have a form of attack that is particularly damaging to one or more of the
player"s heroes. This being the case, the player must act strategically to take out particularly
dangerous enemies early before their team is decimated, to protect particularly vulnerable heroes
against attack, and to choose the forms of attack that will be most damaging to the enemy forces
upon every turn. If the heroes eliminate all on-screen enemies, the next wave will appear. There
will typically be between two and three waves in a standard stage.

Battle screen

4.4 Heroes and equipment
As players progress through the game, overcoming waves of increasingly treacherous enemies
and gaining battle experience, they can unlock new playable heroes with different skills and
characteristics. Some heroes have attacks that are particularly damaging to certain types of enemies,
some have defenses that make them particularly resilient to enemy attacks, some have special
abilities that allow them to increase the overall attack capabilities of the team, and others have
the capacity to heal other team members.
There are a total of 80 playable heroes in the game that fall into nine hero classes. Each time a
hero advances to a new experience level they attain new skills and greater powers.

18

Post-battle items acquired screen

Players can also acquire a wide variety of items that can be used in-game. Each item holds some
kind of special property. Just as certain characters have increased attack capabilities, enhanced
resilience to attacks and other special characteristics, so too do items. These items can be assigned
to each hero during the preparation stage (see section 4.3.1). Players can assign seven types of items
to each hero. The categories are Weapon, Helmet, Armor, Gloves, Pants, Shoes, and Accessory.
As with the heroes, it will be possible to increase the power of each item through “reinforcement”.
This will result in a stronger effect in the use of that item. Each item can be reinforced a maximum
of 15 times. At the time of launch, there will be over 100 distinct items available in Five Stars. Items
come in Five levels of rarity ranging from Common to Legendary.
Players can strategically combine heroes with certain items to give themselves a competitive
advantage. For instance, should a player know that the next wave of enemies will be particularly
dangerous to a certain hero on their team, they may assign a piece of armor to that hero to allow
them to withstand the danger.
As a second example, a particularly damaging weapon could be assigned to a particularly damaging
hero thus allowing that hero to defeat every enemy in a single blow. There are any number of
combinations that can be made to create a range of effects.

19

4.5 Item trade

In the future, Five Stars' NFT items will be traded via in-game auctions and external NFT marketplace (such as Opensea). Where a player puts an item up for public auction, the item will be
advertised for a limited period before being won by the highest bidder. In the NFT marketplace,
players can exchange equipment directly, sell owned equipment for MNR, or purchase equipment
with MNR.

i.e OpenSea.io

As Mineral Hub releases more games, players will be able to trade assets between different games
within the Mineral Hub ecosystem and Klaytn partner games via the integrated DEX exchange.
Players can also use the DEX exchange to trade MNR and KLAY.
Mineral will take a transaction fee of 5% on all trades made within the Mineral Hub ecosystem.
This fee will be paid in MNR. Funds obtained via this fee will be automatically locked up for a
period of six months. This is to secure the value of MNR. Following this lock-up period, the funds
will be added to the reserve amount and utilized in accordance with the plans detailed in section
6.2.
20

Five Stars Auction screen

4.6 In-game currencies
Five Stars will contain multiple in-game currencies, each of which will have a slightly different
function.
Gold : Gold is used as a standard in-game currency for the purchase of reinforcements, the
purchase of skills and other in-game acquisitions.
Star : Star is a Premium currency that can be used to purchase in-app cash items within the Five
Stars app. Like Gold, Star can only be used within the Five Stars game. In the future, players will
be able to purchase Star within the game via credit card(see section 7 of this whitepaper). The inclusion
of Star will ease the initial payment barrier of ordinary gamers who may not be familiar with cryptocurrencies.
Mineral : Mineral is a crypto asset that can be used across all games in the Mineral Hub ecosystem.
It can be used as a means of payment in the trade of items both via auctions and in the MNR NFT
marketplace. MNR is the only currency that can be used to trade the unique items available through
the MNR ecosystem. It is also used to pay transaction fees.

21

Mineral Token

Item Trade

(Cryptocurrency)

In-app products &

Star

Random Character

(Premium Currency)

Summon

Contents Fee

Gold

(Reinforcement,

(Basic Currency)

Skills, Etc)

Buy Items

Buy Items

Sell Items

STAR

MARKET
(Auction)

Obtain MNR,STAR

he

t
R in

STA
Use
Buy

STAR

mic

rot

Pur
cha

se S

tar
(

act

via

ion

Mineral

List items

re
Sto

ran
s

Sell Items

Ob

tain

Go

lds

e/
t Fe s
n
e
t
m
duc
rce
nfo ld Pro
i
e
R
Go
Buy

item

s

cas

h)

GOLD

STORE

Mineral Hub"s collection of usable currencies has been thoroughly checked for inflation bugs that
might allow hackers to increase the supply of tokens and fraudulently cash them out, crashing
their value and impacting all players.

22

5 Token
5.1 Token overview
MNR is a KCT built on the Klaytn blockchain. Klaytn is a hybrid blockchain which combines the
best features of public blockchains (decentralized data & control, distributed governance) and
private blockchains (low latency, high scalability).¹ The Mineral Hub team chose the Klaytnblockchain over other crypto networks due to its high transaction throughput and the capabilities of
its token standard.
Klaytn"s KCT standard is based on Ethereum"s ERC-20 token standard. However, Klaytn can
implement 3,000-4,000 TPS per second while Ethereum can only handle a maximum of around
25 TPS.² This also greatly exceeds the TPS of Tron and EOS which can handle 2,000 and 1,200
TPS respectively.³

5.2 Token functions
MNR"s primary use is for the purchase and sale of NFTs. Where a player wishes to purchase a
particular item, they must acquire the necessary amount of MNR by selling some of their items
for MNR, purchasing MNR on exchanges or, in the future by purchasing MNR in-game via card
payment (see section 7 of this whitepaper for more on this).
Additionally, MNR is used to pay transaction fees. Since the acquisition of particular items is often
required to progress in Mineral Hub games, and since some items are incredibly rare and will elicit
a desire to collect them, it is anticipated that demand for MNR will remain high.

5.3 Token value capture
The Mineral Hub team has set out a number of strategies aimed at ensuring that MNR not only
maintains its value but actually increases in value over time.

5.3.1 Expansion of the NFT market
Mineral Hub is committed to continuously expanding the range of heroes and items available
as NFTs, creating new and novel aspects for its games while simultaneously increasing rarity and
the value of some of the early-era items. As new games are developed and added to the Mineral
Hub ecosystem, a greater number of players will be onboarded. Such additions will increase overall
activity in the NFT markets and item auction.

1 https://www.klaytn.com/Klaytn_Token_Economics_and_Governance_Paper_V1.01.pdf
2 http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20190709000768
3 https://cointelegraph.com/news/buterin-needs-bitcoin-cash-scaling-ethereum-before-sharding-casper

23

5.3.2 Staking
Many medium-of-exchange tokens encounter the velocity problem. To summarise the velocity
problem, where a token"s only use is payment for a service on the platform, there"s no incentive
to hold tokens rather than converting them to FIAT.
Those purchasing the token to access its utility within the platform (in Mineral"s case, the purchase
of items/NFTs) will simply purchase tokens for a specific transaction. Equally, those receiving the
token in exchange for platform utility (in Mineral"s case, MNR received for the sale of an item/NFT)
will instantly sell the tokens they receive for FIAT to avoid the risk of price fluctuations.
This situation results in high velocity for the token, as the increase in demand driven by buyers
acquiring tokens will always be quickly matched by a corresponding increase in supply from sellers
converting these tokens to FIAT. Effectively, high velocity acts as an increase in circulating supply
and is, therefore, inversely proportional to the value of the token.
To counter this, the Mineral Hub team
will implement a staking mechanism
called Fairy (VIP system). Under this staking
mechanism, Mineral Hub will offer a range of
in-game benefits that can be acquired by staking
MNR. The more MNR a player stakes, the greater
the benefits they will receive. Within the game, this
staking mechanism will be visualized with the Mineral
Fairy, a small character that will level-up as the player"s
staked MNR increases.
* The Staking system could be modified to comply with the crypto
regulation/law of each country
* The Staking system could be different from the whitepaper when it is
applied in the game.

The Mineral Fairy

24

5.3.3 Token burns
Mineral Hub will also introduce token burns to further increase the value of the MNR token over
time. As discussed in section 4.6, a 5% fee is charged on every transaction within the Mineral
ecosystem. The funds generated via this fee will be locked-up for a period of six months before
being added to the reserve. To increase the overall value of the circulating token supply, 20% of
this MNR will be burned every month. The burning amount will always be set below 5% of the
total minted token amount. This burning range will be also be applied to follow-up games created
by Mineral Hub (i.e Game A token burn + Game B token burn < 5% of total)

5.4 Token advantages
MNR offers a range of benefits for gamers and developers alike. Gamers can enjoy the stable
token valuation afforded by MNR"s value capture mechanisms (see section 5.3), the multiple functions of the token (see section 5.2) and the low entry barrier resulting from the automation of the
set-up process and the subsidization of fees (see section 3.2). Equally, developers will benefit from
MNR"s capacity to improve user onboarding through increased accessibility, a sign ficant reduction
in development costs due to the existence of MNR as a readymade in-game currency solution
and exposure to a body of gamers that play other games within the Mineral Hub ecosystem.

25

6 Token sale
6.1 Token allocation

Reserve

Sales

7.84%

15.0%

Marketing

MNR Ecosystem

15.0%

30.0%

Patners
R&D

DC Swap

10.0%
Foundation/Company

10.0%

0.16%

10.0%
Tron SR
Supporters

2.0%

In Mineral"s Token Generation Event, 10,000,000,000 (ten billion) MNR will be minted. No more
MNR tokens will ever be created. These tokens will be allocated as follows:
Token Sales : 1,500,000,000 (15%)

MNR Ecosystem : 3,000,000,000 (30%)

Marketing : 1,500,000,000 (15%)

TRON SR Supporters : 200,000,000 (2%)

Partners : 1,000,000,000 (10%)

Reserve : 784,000,000 (7.84%)

Foundation/Company : 1,000,000,000 (10%)

DC Swap : 16,000,000 (0.16%)

R&D : 1,000,000,000 (10%)
The Mineral Hub team is committed to ensuring the continued and healthy growth of the Mineral
ecosystem beyond the initial token sale. This is why the team will allocate the bulk of all tokens
generated to initiatives that will contribute to this end. Tokens allocated to marketing, the MNR
ecosystem, the Mineral Foundation, research and development, and the reserve will all contribute
to the expansion of the Mineral ecosystem in different ways. Combined, these allocations make
up 73% of all tokens generated.
* The actual amounts for DC Swap is 15,816,864 and Reserve 784,183,136. The numbers above are rounded up to
make calculation easy.

26

6.2 Use of funds
Funds obtained via transaction fees paid to Mineral Hub will be locked up for a period of six months
after which they will be added to the reserve amount. These funds will be used to maintain the
MNR token supply and to expand the MNR ecosystem.

10%
5%

15%

20%

10%

40%

Marketing

(20%)

Reserve

(10%)

R&D/In-game operations

(40%)

Business operations

(15%)

Legal

(5%)

Partners

(10%)

27

7 Business development
From the launch of Five Stars onwards, Mineral Hub will sustain itself financially through income
from fees paid to the network by players of games within the Mineral ecosystem. Players will be
charged a 5% fee on every transaction made in Mineral"s NFT marketplace. Players will pay this
fee in MNR, thus providing another use case for the token and increasing demand. Funds raised
via transaction fees will automatically be locked up for a six-month period in order to ensure the
stability of the token. Following the lock-up phase, these funds will be added to the reserve.
Since Mineral Hub intends to create a range of high-quality games for the international market,
it is anticipated that the platform will quickly acquire and sustain a large number of users making
daily transactions. For this reason, it is expected that the revenue generated from transaction fees
will be sufficient to cover staffing costs, maintenance, research and development, advertising,
geographical expansion, growing the team and developing new games.
The Mineral Hub team is committed to breaking down barriers to entry for gamers who may not
have extensive knowledge of cryptoassets and improving accessibility. To this end, the team is
currently developing a strategy to facilitate the purchase of MNR via direct card payments within
Mineral games. This will negate any need for players to go through exchanges when they require
extra MNR and will further abstract away the blockchain element.
Though Mineral Hub is headquartered in Singapore, putting it in an excellent position to access
the Asia-Pacific games market which is due to generate $72.2 billion in 2019, accounting for 47%
of total global game revenues,1 the team is focused on global expansion. In 2019, the U.S. gaming
industry is due to generate $36.9 billion, making it the largest gaming market by revenues globally.
The Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions are due to reach $34.7 billion, while Latin America is
set to reach $5.6 billion. Mineral Hub will place a particular focus on breaking into these growing
markets.¹

1 https://resources.newzoo.com/hubfs/2019_Free_Global_Game_Market_Report.pdf?utm_campaign=Games%20Market%20Report&utm_source=hs_automation&utm
_medium=email&utm_content=76474808&_hsenc=p2ANqtz-8TelI0a1lBn5yE3qoUvTFNUVP5qkYacPdZK3-DNbJJ9rNcFy-%202PoEjoOyWwREgVbdcaNPEw-QTEkOyY6
_9MP8FvPtp62hjhi74f1X4unI6_4SDdq8&_hsmi=76474808

28

8 Competitor analysis
An analysis of the features and user experience of a typical blockchain game on each of the leading
DApp networks shows that Five Stars/Klaytn is optimized on multiple fronts. Each of the leading
second and third-generation blockchains (Ethereum, EOS, Tron) has certain attributes that make
them suited to particular use cases and audiences. For the purposes of gaming, however, Klaytn"s
architecture makes it the ideal network for developers seeking to onboard new users in as seamless
and intuitive a manner as possible.

One-click
setup

TPS

Five Stars
(Klaytn)

3.000+

CryptoKitties
(Ethereum)

20

Prospectors
(EOS)

50

FragGoo
(TRON)

2.000

Auto-wallet
creation

key
generation Third-party Integrated
abstracted gas payment NFT market

In-game
Currencies

29

9 Roadmap

2019

2020

2019.09.01

2020.04.07

2020.04.13

Partnership with
Klaytn

Listing of MNR on
exchanges

"FiveStars" CBT
Launch

2020.09

2020.09

2020.06

"Five Stars"
Offical Launch

"Five Stars"
Final CBT

"Five Stars"
2nd CBT

(KOREA)

2021

2020.4Q

2021.1Q

2021.2Q

2021~

"Five Stars"
Taiwan, Hong Kong,
Macau Launch

"Five Stars"
Global Launch

"Five Stars"
Japan Launch

Launch of
follow-up game

30

10 Company background
Mineral Hub was established in late 2019 to build and govern the Mineral ecosystem. The Mineral
Hub team brings together industry-leading experts from the fields of blockchain and game design.
A number of Mineral Hub"s core team members are also members of the SkyPeople team, one of
the most respected and innovative games design teams operating today. SkyPeople is maintaining
the Tron Super Representatives (Tron SR) from its Mainnet and generating the most number of
blocks of Tron so far.
In February 2017, the team released Final Blade, a mobile collective action RPG with a unique
oriental 2D design and dynamic real-time battle gameplay. Final Blade went on to become the
second most popular game in the Google Play store and the third in Apple"s app store. Almost
three years later, Final Blade can still be played in more than 140 countries and maintains high
sales.
In early 2019, the team developed and operated the highly successful DApp game Dragon Castle
built on the Tron protocol. This included the creation and management of DC token, a TRC20
token that players can mine.

31

11 Partners
Tron

Tron is a decentralized content protocol. Tron strives to construct a global free content entertainment
system, utilizing blockchain technology. This protocol allows each user to freely publish, store,
and own data. Tron is one of the largest blockchain operating systems in the world. It is specialized
in 3-High features: High-Throughput, High-Scalability, and High- Availability. users, making Tron
a blockchain protocol with the most DApp users in the world.
The app partners of Tron protocol include Peiwo, Obike, Gifto, Uplive, BTT with a total of 4 million
users, making Tron a blockchain protocol with the most DAPP users in the world.

Klaytn

Kakao"s global public blockchain project Klaytn is an enterprise-grade, service-centric platform
that brings user-friendly blockchain experience to millions. It combines the best features of both
public blockchains (decentralized data & control, distributed governance) and private blockchains
(low latency, high scalability) via an efficient hybrid design. Klaytn is secured by participation from
numerous highly-reputable brands around the globe, working together to create a reliable business
platform atop a robust system of decentralized trust. Klaytn enables businesses and entrepreneurs
today to capture value using blockchain technology, and designed by Ground X.

32

Hedera Hashgraph

Hedera is an enterprise-grade, decentralized public network that uses hashgraph consensus – a
faster, more secure alternative to blockchain consensus mechanisms. Hashgraph works efficiently
to verify transactions and transaction ordering, ensuring fairness on the network and, is built to
deliver the highest standard of security available to safeguard the integrity of the network and
prevent malicious attacks. Hashgraph achieves high-throughput with 10,000+ cryptocurrency
transactions per second and low-latency finality in seconds from its innovative gossip about gossip
protocol and virtual voting. Once consensus is reached, it is available on the public ledger for
everyone to transparently see. Developers can build secure, fair, blazing-fast decentralized applications on top of the Hedera platform.

GBIC

GBIC is a crypto fund that has invested in more than 50 popular blockchain projects such as ICON,
THETA, aelf, and has offices in Korea, China, and the United States. This fund is recognized for its
outstanding market insight and analytical skills that are selected as one of the top 10 crypto funds
that are most influential in China's tech media.

33

RocketFuel

RocketFuel consists of top minds from cutting-edge companies such as Snapchat, Uber, Airbnb,
Accenture, McKinsey and more. Our talent, graduates from MIT, Columbia, and UC Berkeley, have
years of industry leadership in their respective fields. In a landscape where people throw money
at problems, we like to provide strategic, value-add opportunities in business strategy, product,
marketing, blockchain implementation, recruiting, and more in order to help our investments succeed.
Our value to the cryptocurrency space is extensive and we can help your brand with more than
just capital.

BCSolution

BCS is specialized in the field of cryptocurrency consulting and marketing. The company will give
priority to customers based on credibility, accountability, transparency, and strive to become the
current market leader through consistent effort and development. BCS will be the leader establishing
a more systematic and stable system in the cryptocurrency market.
BCS is made up of elite professionals in each field with a global business mindset as background.
As a member of “Enterprise Ethereum Alliance (EEA)”, BCS is actively working on positive lines
globally.

34

AmaZix

AmaZix is the premier provider of full-service advisory to blockchain businesses, providing expertise
for both pre- and post-STO, as well as Token Generation Events. Beginning operations in mid-2017,
the company is now a global enterprise, managing a portfolio of over 120 clients. AmaZix services
span the entire process, from digital advisory, to community & marketing, to worldwide legal, and
corporate finance. For more information visit https://amazix.com.

CertiK

CertiK is a blockchain and smart contract verification platform founded by top formal verification
experts from Yale and Columbia University. Incubated by Binance Labs, Certik has strategic partnerships with the world"s top crypto exchanges such as Binance, Coinone, and Huobi, as well as
public chains such as Ethereum, Terra, and Tron. Different from the traditional testing approaches,
CertiK"s formal verification method mathematically proves blockchain ecosystem and smart contracts are hacker-resistant and bug-free.

35

Haechi Labs

Haechi Labs aims to remove technological barriers for clients to explore the potential of blockchain.
Haechi Labs provides two key services, "blockchain security auditing" and "blockchain as a service".
The company provides top-notch smart contract security auditing for enterprises to securely
develop and deploy the smart contract. Moreover, Henesis (“Blockchain as a Service”) is for enterprises to develop the most securely and easily integrate blockchain with their services. So far, based
on the HAECHI AUDIT's security audit report, clients have successfully listed on the global cryptocurrency exchanges such as Huobi, Upbit, OKEX, and others. Trusted by the industry leaders, Haechi
Labs have been incubated by the Samsung Electronics and awarded the Ethereum Foundation
Grants and Ethereum Community Fund.

OpenSea

OpenSea is the first peer-to-peer marketplace for blockchain-based assets, which include collectibles, gaming items, and other assets backed by a blockchain. OpenSea team members have
backgrounds from Stanford, Palantir, and Google. OpenSea is funded by YCombinator, Founders
Fund, Coinbase Ventures, 1Confirmation, and Blockchain Capital.
OpenSea is currently the largest general marketplace for user-owned digital items, with the
broadest set of categories (200 and growing), the most items (over 4 million), and the best prices
for new categories of items. OpenSea partners with game developers to build customized marketplaces for their in-game items, and is currently the primary marketplace for several top blockchain
games.

36

Xangle

Xangle is a public disclosure platform developed by CrossAngle for the global crypto market.
Building reputation as the "EDGAR for crypto", it holds the most accurate and complete information
of crypto financed projects. Xangle provides due diligence reports of token projects to exchanges,
crypto funds, and traditional corporates. It is currently onboarding more than 150 projects and
more than 360 projects are involved. Partnership with the Mineral Project is for the transparent
exposure of the information rather than business relationship. Mineral and Xangle are closely
working together to create a healthy environment of blockchain industry.

The Sandbox

The Sandbox is a virtual world where players can build, own and monetize their own voxel gaming
experiences on the Ethereum blockchain.. The team’s vision is to offer a deeply immersive metaverse
in which virtual worlds and games will be created collaboratively and without central authority.
The Sandbox features three main components: a VoxEdit NFT builder for building voxel game
ASSETS, a Marketplace for buying and selling ASSETS, and the Game Maker tool where complete
interactive games can be constructed and shared. Together, these components offer rich, easy-to
-create voxel worlds and game experiences and the ability to safely store, trade, and monetize
creations through blockchain, allowing creators to benefit from their creations.

37

Bananatok

BananaTok focuses on our benefits, "BiYong” which hit 6 million users in less than one year and
‘Cafe union’ of ZOO HOLDINGS GROUP which is a Hong Kong-based F&B company met and
combined their advantages. With ‘BananaTok’ (Social Network Services&Smart Pay), we are now
starting a cross-border blockchain SNS&PAY Service.

38

12 Closing statement
Blockchain gaming is an industry with massive potential but which has yet to fully bloom. A lack
of experience with blockchain among the gaming community at large has restricted the adoption
of those games that have attempted to experiment with blockchain integrations so far. Equally
problematic is the scaling limitations of most of the major blockchains. Any blockchain game
that is too successful and gains a great number of players may fold under the financial weight of
storing gaming data on-chain.
Mineral Hub aims to bring about the next generation of blockchain gaming by combining a truly
high-quality gaming experience with a blockchain solution that abstracts away the difficulties
associated with this technology while maintaining the value that it offers. Our team combines
industry leaders in game design and blockchain with the aim of creating sophisticated games
with equally sophisticated token mechanics.
With the launch of Five Stars, we will show that blockchain technology can support a truly immersive,
high-quality gaming experience rather than limiting it. With high-end graphics, game mechanics,
an immersive storyline, massive customizability and the capacity to create and claim real value,
this game will mark the first release in a brave new era of blockchain gaming.
Through the Mineral project, we hope to allow gamers to enjoy the full advantages that blockchain
can bring, empowering them with ownership of their in-game assets by fostering a thriving economy
for the exchange of in-game tokenized assets and rewarding them for playing.

39

13 Glossary
E-sport : “A multiplayer electronic or video game competition organized as a spectator sport,
typically involving professional contestants and watched by viewers online (frequently in plural).
Also: such games or competitions collectively.¹
Free-to-play (F2P) games : Games that can legally be downloaded and played without charge.
Fungible : “Of a good that has been contracted for: that can be replaced by another identical
item without breaking the terms of the contract. More generally: interchangeable, replaceable.”²
Non-Fungible Token (NFT) : A token that is unique and non-interchangeable.
Loot box : An in-game asset that can be “cashed-in” for a randomized selection of in-game
assets (the loot).
Pay-to-play (P2P) games : Games that must be purchased. This encompasses both upfront
payment and paid subscriptions.
Role-Playing Game (RPG) : “A game in which participants act out roles; (now usually) spec.
a game in which players take on the roles of imaginary characters who engage in adventures,
typically in a particular fantasy setting overseen by a referee; (also in later use) a computer game
of this kind.”³
Token swap : The direct exchange of one set of tokens for a different set of tokens usually
equivalent value.
KCT : Klaytn Compatible Token

1 https://www.oed.com/view/Entry/62195340?redirectedFrom=e-sport#eid
2 https://www.oed.com/view/Entry/75537?redirectedFrom=fungible#eid
3 https://www.oed.com/view/Entry/246441?redirectedFrom=role-playing+game#eid12237477

40

14 Disclaimer
This Whitepaper, published by MINERAL HUB PTE. LTD., has been prepared for reference to provide
information on the Mineral project (hereinafter referred to as “MNR Project”) and Mineral Token
based on Klaytn platform (hereinafter referred to as “MNR Token”) being planned and developed
at the time of publication of this Whitepaper. Accordingly, nothing in this Whitepaper provides
any legally binding promise on the contents described herein, nor provides any refer to investment
description, subscription of investment or security sales, invitation of offer, commitment of any
performance, statement or guaranty. Every content in this Whitepaper is a plan of the MNR Project.
Therefore, if any recent content and past announcement conflict with each other, the recent
information shall prevail.
No reader is obligated to execute a contract or legally binding commitment for the MNR Token
sales based on this Whitepaper. In any case, this Whitepaper shall not constitute nor form any
part of, and should not be interpreted as, any offer for the sale nor the subscription of, or any
invitation to offer to buy or subscribe for, any securities nor should it or any part of it form the
basis of, or be relied on in any connection with, any contract or commitment whatsoever. Any
contract to sell or buy MNR Token may be executed under a separate agreement, but this Whitepaper
shall not be the basis nor should be relied upon for deciding whether to enter an agreement or
make an investment. In the case of an inconsistency between the Whitepaper and the aforementioned sales agreement, the contents of the sales agreement shall take priority.
This Whitepaper is not provided as a prospectus nor a project proposal, etc., and shall not be
interpreted as an offer or proposal of investment under any jurisdiction. MNR Token shall not be
understood or interpreted as an opportunity of buyers of MNR Token to receive all or part of
investment returns, income, or profit for participating with or buying goods or services in the
MNR Project.
Information described in this Whitepaper has been prepared based on the best knowledge of
MINERAL HUB PTE. LTD. at the time of publication, but its reliability, accuracy, completeness or
suitability is not represented or guaranteed. Contents of this Whitepaper may be modified in the
future, but MINERAL HUB PTE. LTD. shall not be obliged to amend, modify or revise this Whitepaper.
MNR Project and MNR Token are not completed in development and their structure and contents
may be changed before their launching. Structures of MNR Project and MNR Token are complex,
and require improvements to the functions and services over time. The required time to make
improvements to the functions and services may take longer than planned schedule, and this
Whitepaper provides NO guaranty on whether or not to complete them.

41

This Whitepaper does not aim at those citizens or residents in any state, country, or other jurisdictional
region where the purchase of MNR Token or similar cryptocurrencies and tokens is prohibited.
None of this Whitepaper, in full or in part, shall be reproduced, distributed, or published in a
jurisdiction where issuing the type of tokens specified herein is regulated or prohibited. In addition,
none this Whitepaper, in full or in part, shall be reproduced, distributed or published without
obtaining the prior written consent of MINERAL HUB PTE. LTD..
The publication, distribution, or dissemination of this Whitepaper does not imply that the Whitepaper or its contents comply with the laws, regulatory requirements, or rules of the applicable
jurisdiction. Furthermore, MNR Token is non-refundable, and does not guarantee any redemption.
There is a further risk that the value of MNR Token can, at any time, hold a value of zero. Moreover,
MNR Token is a utility token that is classified as a cryptocurrency or digital asset, and is not a legal
currency, statutory currency, bond, stock, security, nor derivatives and the like, thus should not
be treated or regarded as such.
MINERAL HUB PTE. LTD. does not guarantee the value of MNR Token with this Whitepaper nor
the principal of the amounts paid to buy the MNR Token. MINERAL HUB PTE. LTD. shall not assume
any legal responsibility for any loss or damage arising from information on the MNR Project and
MNR Token included in this Whitepaper. In addition, MINERAL HUB PTE. LTD. and its respective
past, present and future employees, contractors, consultants, equity holders, suppliers, vendors,
service providers, parent companies, subsidiaries or affiliates, if any, shall not be liable for any
kind of damage or loss of whatsoever nature that purchasers of MNR Token may encounter.
The aforementioned damage or loss includes, but is not limited to, financial or nonfinancial losses
as well as comprehensive and intangible losses, such as loss of data, whether or not it is anticipatable.
Therefore, readers should consult their professional financial, purchase, and tax advisers before
making any purchase of MNR Token.
This Whitepaper and related documents may be translated into other languages, but the Whitepaper in English shall be given priority in the event of conflicting its interpretation.

42

Appendix I - Game contents summary

Hero
Hero Random Pick-up
Hero Reinforcement
Hero Level

Adventure
Main Story
Sub Story
Random Quests

Rank System
Personal Ranking
PVP Ranking
Guild Ranking

Equipment
Equipment Reinforcement
Equipment Creation
Equipment Trade

Dungeon

Skills
Skill Reinforcement
Learn more Skills

Raid

Infinite Dungeon
Daily Dungeon

PVP
Asynchronous PVP
Real-time PVP

Guild
Guild Benefit
Guild Raid
Guild Battle
Siege/Capture Fight

43

Appendix II - Game contents flow
(1)
(2)
(3)

Players can obtain ingredients based on the Story Adventure / Growth
PVE for obtaining ingredients for hero promotion
PVP, RVR for both hero competition and cooperation

Players can obtain MNR via market trading / Shorten the growth time

Induce the continuous groth and
competition through the ranking

Player

Reinvestment

rewards, market profits, etc

Choose Character

- Obtain MNR through the

Profits

market trade
- Shorten the growth time

Market

Equipment

Basic Battle

Asynchronous

Obtain growth-necessary
ingredients/Create Equipment

❶

❸ Arena [PVP]
Give growth
motivation Through

Adventure

thecompetition

Obtain the higher-ranked
ingredents for the growth

❷ [PVE]

Obtain various currencites
depending on the level of
contents

Infinity Dungeon
Promotions / Obtain
Promotion Ingredients

Guild Battle

Real-time

[PVP]
Induce

❹ Guild [RVR]

Guild expansion
through the

Community

competition

Inviigoration /
Obatin Long PLC

Daily Dungeon
Induce Daily Participation

Raid
Obtain higher-graded ingredients

New content will be added

End Contents

Guild
Raid

Trigger of
Induce
ooperation

nurturing and

Guild
Siege Fight

competition

44

