FairCoin V2 white paper
DRAFT
June, 2016 by Thomas König and Enric Duran
tom@fair-coin.org, enric@fair-coin.org
Document version 1.1
Code development: https://github.com/FairCoinTeam/faircoin2

FairCoin is the monetary base system for FairCoop - The Earth Cooperative for a Fair Economy
(see https://fair.coop). At FairCoop we develop tools and transfer knowledge that enable everybody
to participate in a fair global economy. FairCoin plays a central role within the FairCoop ecosystem
and is constantly being developed to further our values. Version 1 of the FairCoin wallet software
which was used from 2014 until 2016 relied on mining and minting technology to secure the block
chain. Our objection is that neither mining nor minting can truly be considered fair, because both
confer an advantage on the already rich. Therefore we decided to create a new version of FairCoin
which corrects these issues.
With FairCoin version 2 we create block chain-based software that is fair, secure, resources-saving
and decentralised. It is based on cooperation and not on competition, which creates better
efficiency.
The code-base of the Bitcoin core client in version 0.12 served as the starting point. This enables us
to benefit from the latest developments made by the dedicated Bitcoin developers. Furthermore, the
comprehensive infrastructure that already exists around Bitcoin can be adopted for FairCoin with
minimal effort.

1 of 7

1 Overview
- When we refer to FairCoin in this document we refer to version 2 if not otherwise stated In contrast to other cryptocurrencies FairCoin does not implement any mining or minting
functionality, which are both competitive systems. Block generation is instead performed by socalled certified validation nodes (in short CVN). These nodes cooperate to secure the network.
Therefore we call this system proof-of-cooperation (PoC).
To run a CVN one needs to complete a certification procedure which is called a node certification
procedure that is operated by FairCoop (https://fair.coop/node-certification-procedure/). The
requirements to operate such a node are described in chapter 3.1. Please note that the definition of
the certification procedure is not covered here but in a separate document.
There is no reward for block creation. Therefore, the money supply is not changed by creating
blocks.
The mandatory transaction fees go to the respective block creators to compensate their efforts for
running a CVN.
CVNs can be added or removed from the network dynamically. This way if a misbehaving CVN is
identified it can quickly be removed, and new supporters can easily be added. CVN information is
stored in the block chain. More information about how information can be stored in the FairCoin
block chain can be found in chapter 5.
Certain chain parameters, e.g. the time between blocks, the amount of the transaction fee, etc. are
dynamically adjustable without the need of releasing a new wallet version. These dynamic chain
parameters are stored in the block chain. The FairCoin block chain administrators take on the task
of managing these parameters, in accordance with decisions from the FairCoop assembly.
Information about the FairCoin block chain administrators are also stored in the block chain.

2 Proof-of-cooperation (PoC)
2.1 What is PoC
PoC is a consensus algorithm which is required in the P2P network of a crypto currency. Every
node in such a network must obey the same set of rules to maintain the networks integrity. All
connected clients have the same data available to verify the state of the network.
In the case of FairCoin a limited number of trusted nodes (CVNs) collaborate to create the FairCoin
block chain. They do this by completing the following tasks:
1. By examining the past blocks they determine what CVN should create the next block and
publish their conclusion on the network.
2. They verify the validity and integrity of the last block, its transactions and if it was indeed
the respective CVNs turn. The resulting information from point 1. and 2. are digitally signed
2 of 7

and sent to all other nodes.
3. These signatures are collected by the CVN that creates the next block. They are the actual
consensus proof and thus the proof of cooperation of all the CVNs. This bundle of
signatures is stored in the block chain together with the new block, which is only valid if it
contains enough signatures according to the algorithm.
4. When the new block is completely built it is singed by the creating CVN and sent to the
network.

2.2 How does it work
As mentioned above every CVN takes part in this ongoing consensus process by signing pieces of
data to confirm its approval. Let's put ourselves into the shoes of a CVN and accompany it for 2
blocks. We start at the moment where we've just received a new block from some other CVN.
1. We verify the overall block validity and integrity and its transactions and other payloads.
2. If everything is fine we start searching backwards through the chain to find out which CVN
has created its last block the furthest in the past. Once we've identified that node, we check
if it was recently actively collaborating in the network by trying to find the signatures of that
node in the last couple of blocks. If the node was active, then it will be chosen as the next
block creator.
3. Now that we know who should create the next block we have everything together to start
collaborating. We do this by signing a specific piece of information which contains the
following:
◦ the hash of the last block that we checked to approve that we agree on that parent
block
◦ the ID of the CVN who should create the next block
◦ and finally our own CVN ID to confirm that we signed the information
4. We send our signature out to the network, so everybody knows our opinion about how the
chain should continue.
5. Well, good job so far. Let's check now if it is already time to create the next block. For this
purpose we look up the current block spacing in the dynamic chain parameters data. We see,
it's 3 minutes. So we have to wait until this time has past. In the meantime we are busy
collecting all the signatures of the other CVNs.
6. OK, block spacing time is over, so we check again which CVN should proceed. And it
happens to be our turn, great!
7. But before we go on we need to check if we have at least 50% of the number of signatures
of the last block. Suppose the last block had 27 and we received 28 - so some CVN just
came back online, awesome! We have more than enough.
3 of 7

8. We create a new, fresh block containing all the pending transactions. The signatures we
collected earlier that approve that we are the next in the line also go into the block. The
more matching signatures we have the more likely our block will be accepted by the
network. Usually we should get 100% of all the signatures but if there was a network outage
we'd be missing some.
9. After the new block has passed all consensus checks we send it out to all other nodes. That's
it! We helped to advance the FairCoin block chain.

3 Certified validation nodes (CVN)
The aim of the CVNs is to secure the network by validating all the transactions that had been sent to
the network and put them into a transaction block chain. Blocks are created every 3 minutes (180
sec.). Transactions are confirmed after they have been added to a block.
A CVN is a standard FairCoin core client configured with additional information namely
certification data issued by FairCoop which “upgrades” it to a CVN. Every node will be assigned a
unique id.

3.1 Requirements for running a CVN:
Every entity running a CVN must agree upon the following technical requirements and must carry
the responsibility to fulfil these rules.
1. The system must be connected to the Internet all the time (24/7) and the TCP port 40404
must be reachable by all remote nodes from the Internet.
2. The system must use a public NTP server to synchronize its system time to, e.g. pool.ntp.org
to ensure that the system time is always correct.
3. The wallet software must be configured with certification data issued by FairCoop.
4. A smart card and an appropriate reader, which will be provided by the FairCoin
development team.
Further requirements might be defined after public discussion. But this will be subject to the NCP
document.

3.2 Smart card support
To achieve maximum security for the FairCoin network the private keys of the CVNs that are
required to create and sign blocks are stored on smart cards. These keys are created directly on the
card, cannot be retrieved and are also secured by a 6 number PIN. After 3 invalid tries the card is
locked and must be returned to the FairCoin development team.
When an entity is approved to become a CVN it will receive a pre-configured card/reader set from
the FairCoin development team.

4 of 7

4 Economic role of FairCoin
No more unfair money creation. FairCoin will not create new coins. Certified nodes will not need to
create new coins in order to provide security to transactions. Instead, FairCoin will help to create
the conditions for existing coins to be redistributed to amazing social projects worldwide, thanks to
funds like Global South Fund, Commons Fund, Technological Infrastructure Fund and Refugees
Fund.
By fixing the supply, FairCoin becomes stronger at the level of store of value for the solidarity
economy and the cooperative initiatives.
Through the FairCoin block chain - besides being a currency in itself - FairCoin will be a perfectly
adapted platform to be used by social currencies worldwide with no obligation to abandon their own
principles.
On the contrary, they will find an environment of synergies at all levels, which will allow them to
advance their goals more rapidly by making use of P2P technology, which will facilitate its daily
use and its interoperability with other currencies and payment systems. This, in turn, will form a
part of a growing plural ecosystem consisting of a number of currencies and cooperative initiatives,
eventually becoming capable of challenging the incumbent system.
Therefore, the FairCoin block chain will be the closest thing to a block chain for the common good,
and we can make it possible by working together.

5 of 7

5 Block chain management
To manage the block chain there are chain administrators who sign new instruction data for the
block chain. These administrators act as spokesperson for the FairCoop assembly and are publicly
appointed. For new instructions to be accepted by the network these instructions must be signed by
a defined number of representatives. This number is dynamic and stored in the block chain and can
be changed as decided in the assembly.
The spokespersons are obliged to perform just what the assembly decides. If a spokesperson does
not collaborate as described he will be removed from the list of administrators and a substitute will
be appointed by the FairCoop assembly. Note, that a single administrator has no special power. All
he can do is to sign the decision made in the assembly or refuse to do so.

5.1 Payload
FairCoin blocks can hold different types of payload. They all serve a certain purpose. Most other
crypto currencies only know one payload type: transactions.
The following types of payload can be integrated into a block.
•
•
•
•
•

Transactions
CVN information data
Dynamic block chain parameters
Block chain administrators
Coin supply instruction data

5.2 Adding and removing CVNs
To add or remove CVNs and chain administrators or update the dynamic chain parameters at least
the currently defined minimum number of chain administrators have to sign the corresponding
command which is then injected into the network via the wallets RPC interface.

5.3 The coin supply
The coin supply is fixed and cannot be increased in FairCoin. But if FairCoin is forked to create a
new coin based on the FairCoin source code there is a feature to increase the coin supply.
Please note that this feature is not used in FairCoin. It is disabled at compile time by default. So
the next paragraph applies to forks of FairCoin only:
If it is decided to increase the coin supply all of the chain administrators have to sign the coin
supply instruction data which is then injected into the network via the wallets RPC interface. This
data instructs the CVN which creates the next block to include a second output in the coinbase
transaction with the specified amount of coins to the defined address.
Coins can also be burned by creating an OP_RETURN transaction.

6 of 7

6 Outlook
So far we have implemented important innovations in FairCoin, but we won't stop here. We have
analysed the requirements for a currency for a fair economy and have identified important features
that will be implemented in the near future.

6.1 Micro payments
The high efficiency of the FairCoin network, trusted node relations, low energy cost and
consequently low fees, will make FairCoin the best currency for micro payments which are very
important for many needs like the gift economy and use in poor countries.

6.2 Distributed sub chains and multi-currency ecosystem
This proposed system enables everybody to create a separate chain that roots in the FairCoin main
chain and runs alongside it. To drive a new Chain a selected number of CVNs can take part in any
number of chains. A plug-in architecture provides a way to create chains with new properties. E.g. a
chain can implement a local currency based on a local network of nodes of the same region or city,
or a thematic currency based on the same principles.

7 of 7

