Finance Evolved
2019

Legal Disclaimers
PLEASE READ THE ENTIRETY OF THIS "NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER" SECTION CAREFULLY. NOTHING HEREIN
CONSTITUTES LEGAL, FINANCIAL, BUSINESS OR TAX ADVICE AND YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN LEGAL,
FINANCIAL, TAX OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S) BEFORE ENGAGING IN ANY ACTIVITY IN CONNECTION
HEREWITH. NEITHER DFP PRACTICE LTD (THE COMPANY), ANY OF THE PROJECT TEAM MEMBERS (THE FINNEXUS
TEAM) WHO HAVE WORKED ON FINNEXUS (AS DEFINED HEREIN) OR PROJECT TO DEVELOP FINNEXUS IN ANY WAY
WHATSOEVER, ANY DISTRIBUTOR/VENDOR OF FNX TOKENS (THE DISTRIBUTOR), NOR ANY SERVICE PROVIDER SHALL
BE LIABLE FOR ANY KIND OF DIRECT OR INDIRECT DAMAGE OR LOSS WHATSOEVER WHICH YOU MAY SUFFER IN
CONNECTION WITH ACCESSING THIS WHITEPAPER, THE WEBSITE AT HTTPS://FINNEXUS.IO/ (THE WEBSITE) OR ANY
OTHER WEBSITES OR MATERIALS PUBLISHED BY THE COMPANY.
Nature of the Whitepaper: The Whitepaper and the Website are intended for general informational purposes only and does not constitute a
prospectus, an offer document, an offer of securities, a solicitation for investment, or any offer to sell any product, item or asset (whether digital
or otherwise). The information herein may not be exhaustive and does not imply any element of a contractual relationship. There is no assurance
as to the accuracy or completeness of such information and no representation, warranty or undertaking is or purported to be provided as to the
accuracy or completeness of such information. Where the Whitepaper or the Website includes information that has been obtained from third
party sources, the Company, the Distributor, their respective affiliates and/or the FinNexus Team have not independently verified the accuracy or
completion of such information. Further, you acknowledge that circumstances may change and that the Whitepaper or the Website may become
outdated as a result; and neither the Company nor the Distributor is under any obligation to update or correct this document in connection
therewith.
Token Documentation: Nothing in the Whitepaper or the Website constitutes any offer by the Company, the Distributor or the FinNexus Team to
sell any FNX (as defined herein) nor shall it or any part of it nor the fact of its presentation form the basis of, or be relied upon in connection with,
any contract or investment decision. Nothing contained in the Whitepaper or the Website is or may be relied upon as a promise, representation
or undertaking as to the future performance of FinNexus. The agreement between the Distributor and you, in relation to any sale and purchase of
FNX, is to be governed by only the separate terms and conditions of such agreement.
The information set out in the Whitepaper and the Website is for community discussion only and is not legally binding. No person is bound to
enter into any contract or binding legal commitment in relation to the acquisition of FNX, and no virtual currency or other form of payment is to
be accepted on the basis of the Whitepaper or the Website. The agreement for sale and purchase of FNX and/or continued holding of FNX shall
be governed by a separate set of Terms and Conditions or Token Purchase Agreement (as the case may be) setting out the terms of such purchase
and/or continued holding of FNX (the Terms and Conditions), which shall be separately provided to you or made available on the Website. The
Terms and Conditions Documentation must be read together with the Whitepaper. In the event of any inconsistencies between the Terms and
Conditions and the Whitepaper or the Website, the Terms and Conditions shall prevail.
Informational purposes only: The information set out herein is only conceptual, and describes the future development goals for FinNexus to be
developed. In particular, the project roadmap in the Whitepaper is being shared in order to outline some of the plans of the FinNexus Team, and
is provided solely for INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES and does not constitute any binding commitment. Please do not rely on this information in
making purchasing decisions because ultimately, the development, release, and timing of any products, features or functionality remains at the
sole discretion of the Company, the Distributor or their respective affiliates, and is subject to change. Further, the Whitepaper or the Website may
be amended or replaced from time to time. There are no obligations to update the Whitepaper or the Website, or to provide recipients with
access to any information beyond what is provided herein.
Regulatory approval: No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of the information set out in the Whitepaper or the Website. No
such action has been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction. The publication, distribution or
dissemination of the Whitepaper or the Website does not imply that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied
with.
References to companies and platforms: The use of any company and/or platform names or trademarks herein (save for those which relate to
the Company, the Distributor or their respective affiliates) does not imply any affiliation with, or endorsement by, any third party. References in
the Whitepaper or the Website to specific companies and platforms are for illustrative purposes only.
Cautionary Note on forward-looking statements: All statements contained herein, statements made in press releases or in any place accessible
by the public and oral statements that may be made by the Company, the Distributor and/or the FinNexus Team, may constitute forward-looking
statements (including statements regarding intent, belief or current expectations with respect to market conditions, business strategy and plans,
financial condition, specific provisions and risk management practices). You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements given that these statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual future
results to be materially different from that described by such forward-looking statements, and no independent third party has reviewed the
reasonableness of any such statements or assumptions. These forward-looking statements are applicable only as of the date indicted in the
Whitepaper, and the Company, the Distributor as well as the FinNexus Team expressly disclaim any responsibility (whether express or implied) to
release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events after such date.
No Distribution: No part of the Whitepaper or the Website is to be copied, reproduced, distributed or disseminated in any way without the prior
written consent of the Company or the Distributor. By attending any presentation on this Whitepaper or by accepting any hard copy of the
Whitepaper, you agree to be bound by the foregoing limitations.

FinNexus White Paper

Legal Disclaimers
Features of FNX: In particular, it is highlighted that FNX:
a) does not have any tangible or physical manifestation, and does not have any intrinsic value (nor does any person make any
representation or give any commitment as to its value);
b) is non-refundable and cannot be exchanged for cash (or its equivalent value in any other virtual currency) or any payment
obligation by the Company, the Distributor or any of their respective affiliates;
c) does not represent or confer on the token holder any right of any form with respect to the Company, the Distributor (or any
of their respective affiliates), or its revenues or assets, including without limitation any right to receive future dividends,
revenue, shares, ownership right or stake, share or security, any voting, distribution, redemption, liquidation, proprietary
(including all forms of intellectual property or licence rights), right to receive accounts, financial statements or other financial
data, the right to requisition or participate in shareholder meetings, the right to nominate a director, or other financial or
legal rights or equivalent rights, or intellectual property rights or any other form of participation in or relating to FinNexus, the
Company, the Distributor and/or their service providers;
d) is not intended to represent any rights under a contract for differences or under any other contract the purpose or pretended
purpose of which is to secure a profit or avoid a loss;
e) is not intended to be a representation of money (including electronic money), security, commodity, bond, debt instrument,
unit in a collective investment scheme or any other kind of financial instrument or investment;
f)
is not a loan to the Company, the Distributor or any of their respective affiliates, is not intended to represent a debt owed by
the Company, the Distributor or any of their respective affiliates, and there is no expectation of profit;
g) does not provide the token holder with any ownership or other interest in the Company, the Distributor or any of their
respective affiliates; and the contributions in the token sale will be held by the Distributor (or their respective affiliate) after
the token sale, and contributors will have no economic or legal right over or beneficial interest in these contributions or the
assets of that entity after the token sale. To the extent a secondary market or exchange for trading FNX does develop, it
would be run and operated wholly independently of the Company, the Distributor, the sale of FNX and FinNexus. Neither the
Company nor the Distributor will create such secondary markets nor will either entity act as an exchange for FNX.
Deemed Representations and Warranties: By accessing the Whitepaper or the Website (or any part thereof), you shall be
deemed to represent and warrant to the Company, the Distributor, their respective affiliates, and the FinNexus Team as follows:
a) in any decision to purchase any FNX, you have shall not rely on any statement set out in the Whitepaper or the Website;
b) you will and shall at your own expense ensure compliance with all laws, regulatory requirements and restrictions applicable
to you (as the case may be);
c) you acknowledge, understand and agree that FNX may have no value, there is no guarantee or representation of value or
liquidity for FNX, and FNX is not an investment product including for any speculative investment;
d) none of the Company, the Distributor, their respective affiliates, and/or the FinNexus Team members shall be responsible
for or liable for the value of FNX, the transferability and/or liquidity of FNX and/or the availability of any market for FNX
through third parties or otherwise; and
e) you acknowledge, understand and agree that you are not eligible to purchase any FNX if you are a citizen, national, resident
(tax or otherwise), domiciliary and/or green card holder of a geographic area or country (i) where it is likely that the sale of
FNX would be construed as the sale of a security (howsoever named), financial service or investment product and/or (ii)
where participation in token sales is prohibited by applicable law, decree, regulation, treaty, or administrative act (including
without limitation the United States of America, Canada, New Zealand, People's Republic of China (but not including the
special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau, and the territory of Taiwan), Thailand, and the Socialist Republic of
Vietnam); and to this effect you agree to provide all such identify verification document when requested in order for the
relevant checks to be carried out.
The Company, the Distributor and the FinNexus Team do not and do not purport to make, and hereby disclaims, all
representations, warranties or undertaking to any entity or person (including without limitation warranties as to the accuracy,
completeness, timeliness or reliability of the contents of the Whitepaper or the Website, or any other materials published by the
Company or the Distributor). To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Company, the Distributor, their respective affiliates
and service providers shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort,
contract or otherwise (including, without limitation, any liability arising from default or negligence on the part of any of them, or
any loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of use or data) arising from the use of the Whitepaper or the Website, or any
other materials published, or its contents (including without limitation any errors or omissions) or otherwise arising in connection
with the same. Prospective purchasers of FNX should carefully consider and evaluate all risks and uncertainties (including
financial and legal risks and uncertainties) associated with the FNX token sale, the Company, the Distributor and the FinNexus
Team.
English language: The Whitepaper and the Website may be translated into a language other than English for reference purpose
only and in the event of conflict or ambiguity between the English language version and translated versions of the Whitepaper or
the Website, the English language versions shall prevail. You acknowledge that you have read and understood the English
language version of the Whitepaper and the Website.

FinNexus White Paper

Contents
02
Background & Philosophy：--------------------------------------03
Three DeFi Pain Points：----------------------------------------------------

06
FinNexus Objectives And Definition：---------------------------------08
Detailed Description of FinNexus：------------------------------------08
Three Connections：-----------------------------------------------------------

11
Structure of FinNexus：-----------------------------------------------12
Connection Layer (Information Hub)：-----------------------------------------12
Functional Layer:----------------------------------------------------------------14
External System:---------------------------------------------------------------

15
FinNexus Application Scenarios:---------------------------------16
Participation in PoS Pools Through Lending on Cryptocurrencies:----------------Participation In Quantitative Trading Products Through
17
Lending on Cryptocurrencies:---------------------------------------------------19
Stable Return Assets:----------------------------------------------------------20
Risk Hedging with Options:--------------------------------------------------

22
FinNexus Economic Model:---------------------------------------------22
Rationale:------------------------------------------------------------------------23
Decentralized Finance Protocol Coin:---------------------------------------25
Issuance Process and Future Issuance Plan:-----------------------------27
Buffer Fund:------------------------------------------------------------------------

28
FinNexus Development Plan And Roadmap:------------------------------31
FinNexus Team and Strategic Partners:------------------------------------31
Founding Partners:-----------------------------------------------------------32
Team Members:-------------------------------------------------------------------34
Steering Committee:-------------------------------------------------------------

FinNexus White Paper

01

Background & Philosophy:
In the past year, the crypto markets have declined, driven widely by the fall in price of
Bitcoin. With the fiat prices of BTC, ETH, and other major cryptocurrencies falling by
80% or more, the decline has been dramatic. However, this decline does not mean that
crypto is dead. In fact, even traditional markets such as Wall Street go through similar
cycles of (if not quite so dramatic) rise and decline. From the ashes of each recession,
new businesses emerge, and the economy continues to grow and develop. Every
downturn ends in a rebirth, and these periods afford opportunities to those willing to
take them.
In the world of blockchain, it is no different. While fintech innovation often stirs up
controversy (the newly announced Facebook Libra being the most notable recent
example), it continues to play an important role in our lives. We expect its impact will
only grow larger with time. Declining markets are an opportunity for blockchain
advocates to better reflect on and deal with the pain points and defects that have been
holding back adoption. It is the time to begin exploring new paths. We believe that there
are three key pain points which have been holding back adoption of blockchain
decentralized finance, or DeFi, and we propose FinNexus as the solution.

FinNexus White Paper

02

Background & Philosophy:

Diversity
As Nobel laureate James Tobin once said when asked to summarize his approach to risk,
the best advice for any person is “don’t put all your eggs in one basket.” This idea was
mirrored by the emphasis Harry Markowitz placed on the importance of diversity in his
work on risk and portfolio theory which underlie modern portfolio management strategies
today. While there has been an explosion of crypto tokens over the last several years, the
vast majority of them share similar profiles: high volatility, high return potential, high risk,
and a high BTC price correlation. Market participants, for their part, have differing
appetites for risk at different times. At present, the lack of product variety suitable for
differing risk profiles is keeping many participants out of the market who might otherwise
be happy to participate. Especially with the recent bear market, many existing participants
saw only one option, to leave, which further exacerbated the market’s decline.

Fundamental Value
If innovation, belief, and risk are the seeds of business, value is the crop which grows
from these seeds. Traditional industries directly produce value, the Internet enhances
value by increasing the efficiency of connection, and modern finance amplifies value
through the flow of capital. Value is the root and the foundation stone for all business.
The same is true in the short history of the crypto economy. Bitcoin, for example, serves
as both a store of value and a value exchange mechanism. Exchanges and OTC dealers
provide value by providing liquidity, and mining pools provide the basic security and
operational infrastructure for the entire blockchain network. These entities not only create
or magnify value within the crypto economy, but also become the biggest beneficiaries.
Whether the tokens generated from the business model come with business value is the
one of the key factors in deciding the success of a project in the crypto economy.

FinNexus White Paper

03

Background & Philosophy:
Though decentralized blockchain technology has set down roots in many fields, the
marriage with traditional finance and blockchain based asset diversification is still in the
early stages. To what extent should crypto assets be included in one’s portfolio and how
should we combine traditional financial instruments and methodologies with the
blockchain technology are questions that lie at the core of the FinNexus value
proposition.

Convenience
The blockchain applications of today share the same problems of email and other
applications from the early Internet era. At the time, many users were turned off by
email’s then unfamiliar and complex usage, and many simply didn’t understand its
usefulness. Blockchain based applications today face similar challenges. Interfaces are
cumbersome and difficult to navigate, requiring an investment of time and mental effort
on the part of the user before they are accessible. Something as seemingly simple as
using cash to purchase cryptocurrency, and then using that cryptocurrency to purchase
another digital asset can be overwhelmingly complex for users. This is especially the
case when assets are spread across many different exchanges and sale portals. Before
they can reach any real level of adoption, DeFi applications must become as user
friendly as their traditional counterparts.
Most would much rather buy a house than build their own. While there exist the intrepid
few who are willing and able to put in the time and effort needed to build their own
house, the vast majority of us would much rather just buy. Currently, investing in crypto
is much more like building your own house than it is like buying a pre-made one. Users
need to manage multiple exchanges, ICO mechanisms, private keys, hardware and
software wallets, and more if they wish to access a diverse range of crypto assets. While
there are many innovative and useful crypto projects out there such as MakerDAO, dydx,
and more, users must mix and match and deal with many different systems and
interfaces to meet their unique needs. This fragmentation has kept away many users
who are otherwise interested in crypto but lack the time or ability or even just the
patience to navigate this complex ecosystem.

FinNexus White Paper

04

Background & Philosophy:
The DeFi trilemma
We believe that diversity, value, and convenience are the three major pain points for
crypto investors. By addressing the three issues stated above, investing in the crypto
economy can become more like buying a house than building your own. Value is the
foundation, while diversity and convenience are the scaffolding that allow user
requirements to be met. With those issues addressed, the crypto economy will be
healthier, and adoption will increase. Similar to the scalability trilemma of
decentralization, scalability, and security introduced by Vitalik Buterin, the DeFi trilemma
of diversity, fundamental value, and convenience represent the major challenges which
must be overcome for the industry to move forward. Addressing the DeFi trilemma will
form the foundation for future business and technological revolution. Our perspective is
that any successful DeFi project must adequately resolve this trilemma. The design and
operation of the FinNexus project will focus on these three aspects. We believe that
these simple but universal requirements are the foundation for promoting business
progress and technological revolution in the decentralized finance industry.

(Stable Triangle)

FinNexus White Paper

05

FinNexus Objectives And Definition
In the crypto economy, there exist a number of different connectivity needs. The need for
connectivity between assets and blockchains, between users and blockchains, and
between different service providers and their users. Currently these connections are ad
hoc, unsystematic, and highly inconvenient. Instead, the connections should be unified,
user-friendly, and generalizable. FinNexus is a general protocol aiming at providing those
connections.
Here ‘connection’ refers not only to technological connections, but also business
connections. Therefore, FinNexus is not just a technological protocol, but also a business
protocol. Moreover, FinNexus is not just one protocol, but in fact a collection of multiple
protocols which together compose the FinNexus ecosystem.

（ FinNexus Infrastructure ）

FinNexus White Paper

06

FinNexus Objectives And Definition

1. It will be easier for participants to look for, manage and acquire blockchainbased assets.
(Connection between users and blockchains)
2. It will be easier for asset owners to conveniently offer on-chain assets.
(Connection between assets and blockchains)
3. It will be easier for OTC platforms, brokers and exchanges to find users and
provide them services.
(Connection among service providers and their users)
4. All the participants above can use FinNexus in an open, transparent and equal
way, so as to fulfill the requirements of diversity, convenience and value.

FinNexus White Paper

07

Detailed Description of FinNexus

Connection between users and blockchains: FinNexus is an application layer
protocol. Blockchains are low-level systems, which, like databases, would not generally
involve direct interaction with users. Instead, users employ tools such as wallets or
browsers to interact with the blockchain. Most of these cases are currently limited to very
basic interactions. For complex scenarios, interactions are not intuitive and user friendly.
FinNexus is an application layer protocol for decentralized financial services which allows
users (developers, service providers, and project participants) to easily interact with the
blockchain. FinNexus is focused on interactions related to financial services. The
application layer protocol connects users at one end and connects various public chains
and second layer networks on the other end. The FinNexus protocol removes much of the
friction commonly encountered when using blockchain based protocols by unifying and
standardizing many different services under the parent FinNexus protocol.

FinNexus White Paper

08

Detailed Description of FinNexus
Connection between assets and blockchains:
FinNexus is an asset channel for the blockchain world. Assets need to flow between
the traditional economy and the crypto economy, between different entities in the crypto
economy, and between different chains. These types of flows are impeded not only by
technological barriers but also by commercial and legal barriers. FinNexus aims therefore to
provide not only technological connections, but also legal and business connections. By
setting up these connections at business, legal, and technological levels, FinNexus aims to
establish asset channels which allow for the frictionless flow of assets.
By building these qualified asset channels, FinNexus aims to satisfy the demand for asset
diversity by enabling the flow of a wide variety of assets including both native crypto assets,
traditional assets, and hybrid traditional/crypto assets. This will give users around the world
access to a wide range of products with diverse risk profiles.
In addition to reducing friction and providing a more convenient experience, these channels
will also greatly increase asset liquidity. Liquidity will attract more users to participate in the
crypto economy and lead to a virtuous cycle where the addition of more users improves the
experience for everyone.

FinNexus White Paper

09

Detailed Description of FinNexus
Connection among different service providers:
FinNexus connects service providers with their users and also allows for
collaboration between service providers. The development of the crypto industry will
inevitably expand into more and more subdivisions. The trend of multiple service providers
being involved in an asset’s lifecycle is becoming more and more obvious, leading to an
increase in situations requiring collaboration between several or many different service
providers. However, collaboration currently still relies entirely on traditional trust-based
systems since trustless blockchain-based infrastructure is still not mature enough for many
real-world use cases. FinNexus aims to provide a transparent, standardized, and trustless
means of collaboration between different service providers in order to allow providers to
work together in a secure and efficient way. FinNexus will connect settlement services,
trading platforms, brokerage, and a wide range of other service providers.

FinNexus White Paper

10

Structure of FinNexus
FinNexus can be divided into three parts.
The first part is a technological connection layer, which will serve as the hub for
information transmission. This layer allows for information to flow in and out of FinNexus
through different hubs.
The second part is the rule layer for the formal definition of DeFi use case logics, which
allows for standardized collaboration among different participants in the ecosystem. This
layer will initially have a core set of rules available for use and will be open to the public
for extension.
The third part is the external system layer, which refers to all the external systems related
to the DeFi ecosystem. Rather than building DeFi applications and systems ourselves
from scratch, FinNexus intends to connect various DeFi related applications and systems
together to form a rich DeFi ecosystem.

FinNexus White Paper

11

Structure of FinNexus

Gateway：
The FinNexus gateway is used for information exchange and interaction between the
FinNexus system and external distributed infrastructures such as public blockchains and
layer two networks. FinNexus will gradually integrate SDKs of different public distributed
ledgers and layer two networks, and abstract the common functions of these SDKs, such
as account generation, putting assets on chain, transactions, contract triggering, and
other common operations. Since each chain has different commands to manipulate those
interactions, FinNexus Gateway will standardize those interactions to allow for easy
integration and interaction between chains and services.
API：
FinNexus has two sets of APIs. One set are the standard APIs for external applications.
The standard APIs will be encapsulated in FinNexus and can be called by other
components and interact with external applications which include but are not limited to
exchanges, lending platforms, OTC platforms, etc. The other set are the APIs provided by
FinNexus itself. Those APIs are used for ecosystem partners to access FinNexus.
SDK：
FinNexus will provide a standard SDK for developers to build FinNexus based dApps.
Protocol：
The connection layer will implement a communication protocol for standardized
information sharing within FinNexus and with external systems.

Account System:
There are two types of account systems in FinNexus: 1) the traditional account system
and 2) the blockchain account system. These two systems separately meet the
requirements of users and application scenarios. The traditional account system has KYC
functions embedded which ensure compliance when dealing with users and services from
different regions. In the blockchain account system FinNexus will use the latest blockchain
account management technology to achieve complex account management scenarios.
These technologies include but are not limited to sMPC, threshold secret sharing, Schnorr
signatures, and others.
FinNexus White Paper

12

Structure of FinNexus
The blockchain account system will also be integrated with hardware solutions for a
more secure and flexible account management approach.
Demand Matching System Services:
Demand matching system services are part of the core mechanisms that will support the
function of FinNexus as a channel for asset exchange. The platform will offer a variety of
different demand matching systems suitable for a wide array of different application
scenarios. The demand matching systems provided natively in FinNexus are all noncontinuous bidding systems, so they are suitable for P2P trading of high value assets,
secondary markets, and other non-continuous bidding markets. In cases where
continuous bidding is required, FinNexus will connect with external trading platforms
through its connection layer in order to provide such demand matching functions.
Fund Settlement System:
FinNexus will adopt a variety of different mechanisms for settlement. In some cases,
FinNexus will clear and settle funds through smart contracts on a public chain. In some
other scenarios that cannot be implemented through smart contracts, FinNexus will clear
and settle funds using FinNexus’s standardized protocols. For fiat settlement FinNexus will
cooperate with institutions with legal licenses in their respective regions.
Reward Distribution System:
Within its collaborative financial services ecosystem, FinNexus will often require the
function of rewards distribution in exchange for contributions or work performed.
FinNexus will develop a standardized rewards distribution model which allows for unique
rewards distribution schemes to be defined according to the requirements of different
scenarios. Participants can determine their own reward distribution schemes, and
FinNexus will then automatically calculate and distribute rewards through the system.

FinNexus White Paper

13

Structure of FinNexus

Distributed Infrastructure:
As a decentralized financial platform, the most important external systems for FinNexus to
connect with are various public chains and layer two networks including cross-chain
protocols, the Lightning Network, Plasma, and others. FinNexus aims to be applicable in a
wide range of different application scenarios and to emphasize user experience in its
implementation. FinNexus will make the blockchain user experience more accessible and
friendly to the ordinary user by acting as a unified hub for various distributed ledger
networks.
dApps (Decentralized applications):
FinNexus will connect various dApps, including decentralized exchanges, decentralized
stable coins, decentralized OTC platforms, decentralized lending platforms, oracles, and
many more.
Centralized apps:
While the essence of FinNexus is distributed ledger technology, centralized applications
will undoubtedly also play an important role in the DeFi ecosystem. This means it is
essential for FinNexus to be able to integrate seamlessly with centralized applications in
addition to dApps. These applications will include exchanges, OTC platforms, lending
platforms, identity services, and others.

FinNexus White Paper

14

FinNexus Application Scenarios
The application scenarios involved in FinNexus are essentially similar to traditional financial
application scenarios. From a demand perspective, those scenarios are derived from different
risk-return preferences over different periods of time. The usage in these scenarios are
different kinds of financial products, including asset management, financial derivatives, etc. In
order to achieve different risk-return preferences, FinNexus generates different business
operations based on different products for the participants.

FinNexus White Paper

15

FinNexus Application Scenarios
Some readers may wonder, aren’t there already a wide variety of different DeFi
products being offered by service providers? When basic user requirements are
examined case by case, this is in fact the case. However, the majority of DeFi use
cases are actually composed of multiple basic user requirements, which currently can
only be met through a complex series of interactions with multiple service providers.
The goal of FinNexus is to aggregate a wide array of different services on one platform
so that user requirements can be met in a unified and streamlined way, greatly
simplifying and improving the user experience. To help readers better understand how
FinNexus will aggregate services, several application scenarios are described below:

In this scenario Bob holds BTC, is interested in participate in Wanchain's PoS pool, and
does not want to sell his BTC for WAN. At this time, Bob's demand is to borrow WAN using
his BTC as collateral, and to allocate the borrowed WAN into the Wanchain pool node to
participate in mining. In the current situation, the entire process is very cumbersome, users
need to switch between multiple different platforms and wallets. Bob is likely to give up this
idea if his demand is not very strong.
Through FinNexus, however Bob's needs can be met much more easily. Bob must simply
initiate the transaction, and FinNexus will handle everything behind the scenes. The
platform will find a corresponding lender for Bob to borrow WAN and will then directly
transfer the WAN to Wanchain’s PoS pool through FinNexus’s public chain interface.
In this scenario, what was a complex multi-step process instead turns into a one click
transaction. In this way, Bob completes his entire transaction in one step, the lender earns
his corresponding interest, the mine pool node gains more users from FinNexus, and
Wanchain’s total stake increases. In this way, FinNexus can enrich the entire crypto
ecosystem.
FinNexus White Paper

16

FinNexus Application Scenarios

In this application scenario, Bob wishes to purchase a high yield quantitative
cryptocurrency trading product using BTC. However, he lacks sufficient funds, so he also
requires a loan. Given the current crypto financial ecosystem, this process would require
multiple steps, and both Bob and the lender providing him with the loan will have concerns
about their financial security.

FinNexus White Paper

17

FinNexus Application Scenarios
This scenario becomes greatly simplified when performed via FinNexus’s interface.
Through FinNexus, the cryptocurrency exchange’s account rights including deposit,
withdrawal, and transaction rights can all be separately controlled. Based on this finegrained control of rights, FinNexus will manage the above scenario. Bob will retain the
right to withdraw his principal, the lender retains the right to withdraw the loaned funds,
and the quantitative trading team retains trading rights of both accounts. Throughout
the process, the borrower, the lender, and the asset management party are controlled
in a decentralized manner, ensuring transparency. FinNexus also fills the role of
providing information to all parties involved.
In this scenario, for Bob, FinNexus can complete the borrowing and investment needs
in one step, the lender is able to easily find borrowers, the quantitative trading team is
able to manage more assets, and the exchange is able to increase its trading volume,
bringing benefit to all involved.

FinNexus White Paper

18

FinNexus Application Scenarios

Stablecoins are currently the primary method for mitigating the risks associated with volatile
prices within the cryptocurrency ecosystem. While the concept of stablecoins, especially
those backed by the US dollar, has been frequently questioned, stablecoins are still a vital
and irreplaceable part of the crypto economy. In general, all cryptocurrency holders have a
requirement for converting their high risk / high potential reward cryptocurrencies to a lower
risk asset. Are there any other options besides stable coins? Is it possible to have a low risk
asset which also offers some level of return?
There are a number of possible assets that will be available through FinNexus that meet this
profile. A hybrid traditional / crypto bond is just one example. A traditional bond may have
an annual return of 3%-5%. This bond can be legally tokenized through an STO, and its
tokens will be issued on a public chain via the FinNexus technical protocol.
In this scenario, our user Bob discovers the asset through FinNexus and decided to use
some of his BTC to purchase the asset. Because it is a dollar-denominated asset, the
issuer of the token needs to receive US dollars. Through FinNexus’s OTC interface, Bob’s
BTC will be converted to USD and the bond issuer will directly receive the corresponding
USD. When the bond expires, Bob will receive his principal plus returns in the equivalent
amount of BTC which will be converted through the same FinNexus interface. The entire
process is managed behind the scenes by the FinNexus protocol.
In the above scenario, Bob benefits by having access to an asset with stable returns, as
well as the convenience of the simplified process. The asset issuer completes all
transactions conveniently through FinNexus, and the OTC service provider gains additional
business.

FinNexus White Paper

19

FinNexus Application Scenarios

In the process of converting between crypto and fiat currency, the issue of controlling
volatility often surfaces. This problem affects many cryptocurrency users. For example,
cryptocurrency miners must pay for their electricity in cash. Expat workers might wish to
send remittances back to their home countries.
In the case of individuals sending remittances back to their home country using BTC, for
example, the options for mitigating volatility are very limited. For these users, the best
option is to hedge against the price of the cryptocurrency they are using for their remittance.
This is a complex operation for users under the current state of the cryptocurrency
ecosystem which requires a sophisticated understanding of hedging strategies.

FinNexus White Paper

20

FinNexus Application Scenarios
Typically, a well-paid team of finance professionals is used to devise such a strategy.
But FinNexus aims to standardize such products through technological protocols.
Users with hedging requirements only need to select the corresponding amount,
duration, and currency type on FinNexus and pay a small fee denominated in FNX
token. By this process, the user is able to convert between BTC and fiat currency in a
manner which protects them from price volatility. If the price of Bitcoin falls, the user
will get the compensation for the corresponding price difference from users of the
FinNexus platform.
In the above scenario, the user is able to mitigate their risk, the hedging provider
obtains more business, and the off-exchange and foreign currency dealers obtain more
trading volume. That’s the type of win-win-win scenario that FNX can facilitate.

FinNexus White Paper

21

FinNexus Economic Model

One of the most important reasons for the success of Bitcoin (BTC) is its economic model.
In essence, Bitcoin was designed by Satoshi Nakamoto to be inflationary in the short term,
but deflationary over time. The ingenuity of this model is that short term inflation, i.e.,
mining incentives in the form of block rewards, are economic incentives for the operators
of the Bitcoin network, while the long-term deflation contributes to the strength of Bitcoin’s
value.
Bitcoin’s deflationary nature has contributed to its use as a store of value, and its
increasing acceptance as a store of value has strengthened the value of the token itself,
leading to a virtuous cycle where use drives value and value drives use.
FinNexus will follow a similar model of short term inflation combined with long term
deflation. The actual level of inflation will depend on the level of use of the FinNexus
platform as measured by the ‘fee scale’. The ‘fee scale’ is an indicator derived from fee
data which will be used as a measure of activity on the platform. The level of inflation will
increase or decrease according to the fee scale so that inflation is on pace with the
platform usage. The difference between the FinNexus model and the BTC model is that
while BTC’s inflation was set in stone from the first block, FinNexus’s inflation will be
automatically adjusted according to the usage of the platform.

FinNexus White Paper

22

FinNexus Economic Model

The native digital cryptographically-secured utility token of FinNexus, FinNexus Token
(FNX) is a transferable representation of attributed functions specified in the protocol/code
of FinNexus, designed to play a major role in the functioning of the ecosystem on
FinNexus, and intended to be used solely as the primary utility token on the platform. FNX
is a non-refundable functional utility token which will be used as the medium of exchange
between participants on FinNexus as the platform currency for payment for the use of its
suite of protocol clusters. The goal of introducing FNX is to provide a convenient and
secure mode of payment and settlement between participants who interact within the
ecosystem on FinNexus, and it is not, and not intended to be, a medium of exchange
accepted by the public (or a section of the public) as payment for goods or services or for
the discharge of a debt. FNX does not in any way represent any shareholding,
participation, right, title, or interest in the Foundation, the Distributor, their respective
affiliates, or any other company, enterprise or undertaking, nor will FNX entitle token
holders to any promise of fees, dividends, revenue, profits or investment returns, and are
not intended to constitute securities in Singapore or any relevant jurisdiction. FNX may
only be utilised on FinNexus, and ownership of FNX carries no rights, express or implied,
other than the right to use FNX as a means to enable usage of and interaction within
FinNexus. FNX would also provide the economic incentives which will be consumed to
encourage participants to contribute and maintain the ecosystem on FinNexus. Providers
of services / resources would require payment for the consumption of resources (i.e.
"mining" on FinNexus) to maintain network integrity, and FNX will be used as the medium
of exchange to quantify and pay the costs of the consumed resources. FNX is an integral
and indispensable part of FinNexus, because without FNX, there would be no incentive for
users to expend resources to participate in activities or provide services for the benefit of
the entire ecosystem on FinNexus.
Fees:
In order to use FinNexus, users must pay fees. The fees are discounted if users use FNX
to pay. 50% of the fees collected are used for FinNexus operations, 25% are used to
incentivize ecosystem participants, and the remaining 25% are used to contribute to the
buffer
fund.
FinNexus
White Paper

23

FinNexus Economic Model
Fee incentives:
25% of the fees collected are used to incentivize ecosystem participants,
including parties involved in asset trading and community developers. The
role of incentives is to attract more participants to FinNexus,

and to

encourage developers to build develop different types of DeFi protocols and
applications for different scenarios on FinNexus.
Inflation:
Inflation will be generated by the issuance of new FNX at set intervals known
as ‘inflation periods’. FNX will be distributed to FinNexus participants and
FNX users who will receive tokens as an incentive for actively using FNX
during each inflation period. Users of FinNexus and/or holders of FNX which
did not actively participate will not receive any FNX incentives.

Security Deposit:
Certain service providers will be required to hold a certain amount of locked
FNX as a deposit to ensure the security of their users’ assets as well as
guarantee of service standards.
Voting:
With the development of community governance in FinNexus, FNX will be
used for community governance, especially for voting on platform features or
community related matters (for the avoidance of doubt, the right to vote is
restricted solely to voting on features of FinNexus; the right to vote does not
entitle FNX holders to vote on the operation and management of the
Foundation, the Distributor or their respective affiliates, or their assets, and
does not constitute any equity interest in any of the aforementioned entities).
Buffer Fund:
For the Buffer Fund, please see the details below.
FinNexus White Paper

24

FinNexus Economic Model

Initial Sale

30%

Team

25%

Operation

30%

Variable
Issuance

15%

There are two stages of FNX issuance: initial issuance and future issuances through
inflation.
Initial issuance
The FNX total supply is 500,000,000. 30% of the total supply will be issued during the
initial sale, 25% will be reserved for the team and founding members, 30% reserved for
operations, and the remaining 15% is reserved for the inflation pool.

FinNexus White Paper

25

FinNexus Economic Model
Dynamic Inflation
According to our design, future issuance will occur during regular inflation periods. The
factors which determine the quantity of FNX issued during inflation periods include both
the ‘fee scale’ (an indicator related to the average volume of fees in the preceding period)
and the average price of FNX. New issuances will be halted if the fee scale growth stops
or decreases.
The tokens reserved for the team will be locked for one year. Over the following 30 months,
the tokens will be unlocked in stages. If the fee scale decreases in any inflation period, the
rate of tokens unlocked in that period will decrease by 50%.
The FNX dynamic inflation pool is capped at 75,000,000. If the current number of
additional issuance is less than or equal to 0 according to the following rules, the
additional issuance will be stopped in the current period. The dynamic inflation issuance
follows the following rules:

𝑈",$ ： the total volume of transactions for the ith financial asset class traded in FinNexus
during the t-cycle
𝑅",$ ： the transaction rate of the ith financial asset class traded in FinNexus during the tcycle
i：Defi financial products of the i-class of the current transaction
n(t): is the total number of all financial assets in the FinNexus during the t period
FNXPrice.： for the weighted average price of FNX in period t, from the open market price
𝛼： The transaction frequency of FNX. In the beginning since there is no historic data for
reference, the parameter will be set to a number below 0.1. After operations have begun,
we will collect the data and determine the α in the later periods based on historical
transaction data.

FinNexus White Paper

26

FinNexus Economic Model
𝐹$ ：is the total transaction fees in FinNexus in the tth cycle, and the formula is:
5($)

F$ = 2

"34

𝑈",$ 𝑅",$

𝑑𝐹$ ：The ratio of the total transaction fee for the tth period compared to the t-1th period
is calculated as:
∑5($)
F$
"34 𝑈",$ 𝑅",$
∆F$ =
= 5($:4)
F$:4 ∑
𝑈",$:4 𝑅",$:4
"34
Since the transaction volume between individual adjacent periods may vary greatly,
especially in the early stages of FinNexus, and transaction volume is used in part to
determine the fee scale parameter which is used in turn to determine the dynamic inflation
rate, we will use the geometric mean volume taken over a period of multiple intervals
rather than a single interval at a time in order to smooth out the fluctuations between
periods.
e：consecutive cycles of the t period selected in order to calculate the average rate
of change
∆𝐷𝐹𝐶𝐼𝑠𝑠𝑢𝑒𝐴𝑚𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡$ ：The amount of increase in FNX during the next period: the formula is
[ dF$ ×dF$:4 ×dF$:T × ⋯×dF$:V
∆FNCIssueAmount $ = α×
FNXPrice$

4
WX4 −1]×F$:V:4

Through the above-mentioned issuance and other additional parameters, the entire supply
of FNX will be thus limited by the scale of the FinNexus economy, in order to maximize the
value captured by each FNX in the FinNexus ecosystem.
25% of FinNexus fees will be used for the buffer fund. The main role of the buffer fund is for
asset insurance. The buffer fund will be used to compensate user losses when an
uncontrollable factor causes FinNexus users to lose their assets. The buffer fund will be
managed by professionals for value preservation (for the avoidance of doubt, FNX token
holders have no rights to the assets of the buffer fund).

FinNexus White Paper

27

FinNexus Development Plan And
Roadmap
Development Plan:
FinNexus has ambitious goals. But we have a very practical approach to reaching them
step by step. We do not intend to launch with every intended feature already
implemented, but rather we plan to gradually implement features in a series of stages.
Our initial goal is to offer a diversified set of crypto assets to users, and from that basic
functionality gradually implement the rest of our stated goals.

FinNexus is a diversified crypto asset platform suitable for different application scenarios.
The primary goal of FinNexus is to directly address user demands and provide users with
fundamental technological and business protocols.
In terms of the business logic of Phase 1, the first priority is to implement the
fundamental tools and systems to support the basic application scenarios described
above. FinNexus will actively recruit more participants and partners to jointly implement
the tools and systems to support a variety of application scenarios. Participants will be
incentivized to join using a portion of the operations fund, and participants will be able to
continually earn profit in the form of service fees charged for the tools they implement on
FinNexus. In addition to recruiting partners who can provide assets, tools, and
applications, FinNexus will also recruit compliance agencies and licensed financial
services agencies to join the platform so as to improve the business protocols at the
legal compliance level. Acquiring a wide range of assets and attracting and keeping
users are the key issues at this phase. We will onboard a wide range of different types of
crypto and hybrid traditional / crypto assets in order to provide crypto users with a rich
choice of products with various risk / return profiles. This diversity of digital assets will
attract users from the crypto world and the traditional world to the FinNexus ecosystem.
FinNexus will be a technological connection between mainstream public chains,
centralized exchanges, decentralized exchanges and other applications. By establishing
these connections, entities with different asset demands can easily issue, operate, trade,
purchase and redeem these assets. FinNexus will establish a system of fund settlement,
risk control, fee allocation, and other modules so as to serve the scenarios in Phase 1.

FinNexus White Paper

28

FinNexus Development Plan And
Roadmap
FinNexus will gradually improve its technical and business protocols. The overarching
goal is to become an open and collaborative protocol that allows for emergent use cases
and application scenarios.
In terms of business, FinNexus will work with legitimate compliance agencies in different
regions and obtain corresponding licenses so as to clear the obstacles of compliance for
ecosystem development. By carefully adhering to the legal regulations of each relevant
business jurisdiction, FinNexus will attract more business partners, assets, and users to
the FinNexus platform.
FinNexus will continually work to improve the openness of its technical protocols, the
completeness of its standards, the richness of its application scenarios, and the
decentralization of its implementation so that developers will be able to use FinNexus to
create their own powerful ecosystem applications.

With the improvement of the underlying blockchain protocol and the development of
community governance, the ultimate goal of FinNexus is to become a fully decentralized
open collaborative financial protocol, and a distributed self-evolving business community
with open governance.

FinNexus White Paper

29

FinNexus Development Plan And
Roadmap
According to the three phases of our development plan, the initial roadmap
of FinNexus is as follows:
FinNexus officially starts, including pre-planning, finding core
members of the FinNexus team, negotiating with fund partners, etc.
Prepare the white paper and announcement plans.
Release the white paper. Go live with the website and officially begin
interactions with the market.
FinNexus (V 1.0) goes live. The first batch of assets go online.
FinNexus (V 2.0) goes live. The second batch of assets go online.
Deliver a functional middleware protocol layer and open parts of our
APIs to the public. The third batch of assets go online.
Complete Phase 1. The functional protocol layer will be articulated
into protocol clusters which exist both at the middleware layer and the
application layer. More APIs will be opened to the public. At this point,
we expect to have a global asset platform that can connect both
blockchain-to-blockchain (cross-chain) and blockchain-to-legacy
systems (comprehensive interoperability). At this point, we hope to
significantly expand our partnerships and integrate multiple largescale users using our protocol clusters in their own apps, Dapps,
platforms and products.
Standardize the middleware protocol clusters and improve
connections at each individual layer. A P2P protocol network is initially
formed. FinNexus transitions from asset platform to asset channel.
Complete Phase 2. Phase 3 begins as we attempt to fully
decentralize the P2P open sharing protocol network and develop an
effective community governance model for the entire ecosystem.

* Our roadmap is subject to constant change. Please consult
our website for the most recent version.
FinNexus White Paper

30

FinNexus Team and Founding
Partners

The FinNexus project was initiated by two major founding partners,
Wanchain and SuperAtom.

Wanchain is one of the foremost projects in the blockchain industry. Wanchain has
developed advanced public chain technologies such as privacy protection, a crosschain protocol, an original proof of stake consensus mechanism, and much more. In
particular, Wanchain’s cross-chain protocol plays an important role in the foundational
layer of FinNexus and will be used for complex application scenarios. Wanchain will
provide comprehensive technical support for the FinNexus project.

SuperAtom is a fintech company that has been incubated by Cheetah Mobile (NYSE:
CMCM) since January 2018. SuperAtom has a number of locally licensed Fintech
companies covering the regions of the United States, Taiwan, Southeast Asia, and
more. It owns a crypto exchange with many qualified financial assets. SuperAtom will
continuously provide FinNexus with qualified financial assets, thereby increasing the
types of assets available in FinNexus and the crypto world. Initially, FinNexus and
Superatom will collaborate to tokenize traditional financial projects in Southeast Asia
that provide stable returns via STOs and other structures. The intent is to create a new
kind of “Yu’e Bao” (a famous Chinese financial management product with the largest
assets under management in the world) for the crypto economy.

FinNexus White Paper

31

FinNexus Team and Founding
Partners
Boris Yang
Boris holds degrees in finance and law from Beijing’s University of International
Business and Economics. He is a former Vice President at Wanglu Tech, cofounder of Wanchain, and the main designer of Wanchain’s technology stack.
In 2015, he entered the blockchain industry with a concentration on product
design and business operations. He has many years of experience in internet
startups and is a serial entrepreneur.

Bob Chen
Bob graduated from Harbin Institute of Technology and is an expert in internet
and blockchain technology. As a technical leader, he has worked for internet
giants such as Alibaba and Qihoo 360. After entering the blockchain industry, he
led a team to develop an asset management wallet. His expertise is in highconcurrency applications, blockchain asset security management, and high
frequency quantitative trading.

Ryan Tian
Ryan earned his master’s degree in financial engineering from York
University. He has worked in the financial industry for more than 10 years. He
worked in the banking department of a well-known securities company and
was responsible for sponsorship of listed companies. His expertise is in
securities products, specializing in finance and risk control.

Jack Tung
Jack graduated from Nanyang Technological University. He has more than
10 years of experience in asset management services for companies and
high net worth individuals. He is a senior Fintech consultant, specializing in
framework design for asset management compliance, and architecture
design for financial enterprise compliance.

FinNexus White Paper

32

FinNexus Team and Founding
Partners

Nicholas Krapels
Nicholas is a China-based American writer, educator, and entrepreneur. He
works in global financial services as China Managing Director at DarcMatter
and Blockchain Lead at Konstellation. He teaches graduate courses in
business, strategy, & entrepreneurship at Tongji University and SKEMA
Business School. His research focuses on innovative monetary policy.

Noah Maizels
Noah is a Johns Hopkins University graduate, bilingual Mandarin & English
marketing professional with more than seven years experience in the China
market. He has been a crypto watcher since 2011 and joined the industry in
2017. He specializes in producing easy to read and understand content
about complex fintech products.

Veer Singh
Veer is a graduate in Aeronautical Engineering. He is an experienced
community manager and has worked with multiple blockchain projects in the
past. He currently works as a Community Manager for Band Protocol and is
the Editor/BD for blog.goodaudience.com.

FinNexus White Paper

33

FinNexus Team and Founding
Partners

FinNexus establishes its steering committee with members who
are each specialists in their respective fields. These industry
leaders are from blockchain, mobile internet, finance, law, etc.

Jack Lu
Jack is a leading figure in the blockchain industry. He is co-founder of
Factom and founder & CEO of Wanchain. In 2013, he entered the blockchain
industry and led the projects Factom and Wanchain to achieve multiple
technical innovations in areas such as privacy protection, cross-chain
protocol, and new consensus mechanisms.

Scarlet Xiao
Scarlet is a board member and Vice President of Cheetah Mobile and
Chairman of the Board at SuperAtom. She worked as a public relations
director at Qihoo 360 and as a communication manager of Yahoo China.
From 2008-2010, she worked as a senior manager of the Enterprise
Marketing Department at Baidu. Since October 2010, she has been the Vice
President of Cheetah Mobile and is responsible for business development,
marketing and commercial products.

Eason Zhang
Eason is the founding partner of River Capital and a lifelong member of the
China Youth Angel Investor Leader Association. He has invested over 60
companies in the science and technology industry and has many years of
experience in the Internet industry focusing on product technology and
market operations. He Has been the Head of the Product Technology
Department at Sohu, the Vice President of China Mobile 12580, and the
President of the HNA Group’s Internet Business.

FinNexus White Paper

34

