FLO: a public record for building decentralized applications
https://flo.cash
FLO is a Nakamoto consensus cryptocurrency allowing anyone to
append metadata to the blockchain. FLO coins are needed to pay for
storage, and participants are awarded FLO in exchange for their work
securing and distributing information.
FLO is used to send payments and store data. This encourages building blockchain
applications because anyone has the ability to write data into FLO quickly and read it easily.
FLO was fairly launched in 2013 with no pre-mine or ICO, and is a community-driven,
decentralized, open-source initiative. Many decentralized applications have been built on
FLO because of the reliability of the proof-of-work network in combination with the
permissionless read and write data field called ​floData​
.
Organizations using floData in their decentralized applications

Open Index Protocol​ is a standard for defining, publishing, indexing, timestamping,
updating, monetizing, sharing, viewing, and claiming ownership of any digital content.

Alexandria​ is a decentralized, open-source front end where users create, upload, and
access digital content distributed with the Open Index Protocol.

Caltech Electron Tomography Database​ is an experiment in distributing large scientific
datasets using OIP with information about each tomogram stored on FLO.

tZERO​ is an exchange trading regulated security tokens. tZERO makes use of FLO by

storing proof of trades in its immutable ledger. FLO acts as a neutral repository for auditing
trade history and ensuring integrity of trade data.
Medici Ventures​ is supporting projects that develop applications and tools for individuals
or organizations to record property records on blockchain, making it possible for anyone in
the world to access them. Open Index Protocol on FLO Blockchain provides the open,
decentralized index that exposes those records.
Twitter​ | ​Bitcointalk​ | ​Telegram​ | ​YouTube​ | ​Medium​ | ​Apps​ | ​Github​ | ​Reddit​ | ​Alexandria
WeChat: Flo Blockchain中国交流群

