FOAM
Whitepaper

05.01.2018

Foamspace Corp
info@foam.space

FOAM –
The Consensus Driven
Map of the World
FOAM is an open protocol for decentralized,
geospatial data markets. The protocol
is designed to empower users to build a
consensus-driven map of the world that can
be trusted for every application. As technology
evolves and changes, maps need to change
too. FOAM secures physical space on the
blockchain, harnessing the power of Ethereum
with a cryptographic software utility token
used to provide computational work and
verification to the network.
The component elements of the FOAM
protocol are designed to provide spatial
protocols, standards and applications that
bring geospatial data to blockchains and
empower a consensus-driven map of the
world. Token mechanisms and cryptoeconomics underpin the elements of FOAM
and empower the distributed users to
coordinate and interact in a decentralized and
permissionless fashion.

Table of contents
Abstract
Overview
Problems				
Location Encoding
User Experience
Location Verification
Solutions
Crypto-Spatial Coordinates
		 Properties of the CSC
		 The CSC functionality
The Spatial Index and Visualizer
		 Properties of the SIV
		 The SIV functionality
Proof of Location
		 Properties of the PoL
			 Token Curated Registries
for Geographic Points of Interest
			 Signaling
		 The PoL Functionality
			 Block rewards
		 D
 ynamic Proof of Location anticipated
to verify location claims in 7 steps
		 P
 articipating in the FOAM Network
as a Cartographer – A Summary
		 P
 otential Applications of Dynamic
Proof of Location
		 Technical White Paper

Elements
of FOAM
The thinking behind FOAM is that users should own their personal location information,
controlling when and with whom they choose to share their location. FOAM is committed to
solving this need by providing spatial protocols, standards, and applications that offer a higher
level of security and resiliency than conventional geospatial technologies and location-based
services.
Location-based services have augmented both urban and rural life, changing how people get
around and how products get to people. In the future, the world’s collective critical infrastructure
will rely even more heavily on spatial information, from stock exchanges to autonomous vehicles
and the internet of things. Blockchains have emerged to enable cryptographically secure
transactions and distribute risks through peer to peer networks without the need for a trusted
third party. Blockchains have the potential to enable secure and self-regulating emergent
infrastructures of the future.
New applications driven by smart contracts will need consensus-driven geospatial data that
can be verified and trusted. Previous attempts to create an open source map that is legible to
humans, verifiable, and readable by machines, have been crippled due to a lack of funding for
open source projects. This document explains how the FOAM protocol allows a grassroots user
base to efficiently solve this infrastrucutre development problem around open communication
standards for maps.

Crypto Spatial
Coordinate Standard

Spatial Index
and Visualizer Webapp

Proof
of Location

An open and interoperable
standard for location in Ethereum
smart contracts.

A general purpose visual
blockchain explorer that enables
users to understand, engage and
act with spatial data.

Consensus on whether
an event or agent is verifiably
at a certain point in time
and space.

3

Problems:
Location Encoding, User
Experience and Verification
There are three problems in relation to existing spatial protocols
that FOAM sets out to solve which are intended to assist users
and developers of blockchain, smart contract and locationverification based projects and services. These problems relate
to (i)location encoding standards, (ii) user experience for
spatial applications, and (iii) secure verification about the
authenticity of location data. Each of the component elements
of FOAM is designed to address its corresponding problem, (a)
Crypto-Spatial Coordinates, (b) the Spatial Index and Visualizer,
and (c) Proof of Location.

Location Encoding
Currently, there are no established standards for embedded locations, physical addresses,
or coordinates in smart contracts. Further, there is no open way to verify geospatial data.
For smart contracts to remain interoperable, they need a shared language for them to
reference and index the physical world. Additionally, location standards today are an unsolved
problem. Throughout history, there have been many ways of encoding physical locations
into addresses — from longitude and latitude all the way to the more recent geohash. While
autonomous car companies are racing for more accurate location data, the fact remains that
most of the Earth’s surface lacks an address. According to the United Nations, 70% of the world
is unaddressed, including more than half of the world’s sprawling urban developments.[1]
Maps and addressing systems are at the foundation of our lives, and have played a major role
throughout history. From the earliest forms of navigation, cartographers’ work has been a vital
tool upon which commerce and development rely. We have gone from hand drawn maps and
non-standardized measurement tools like footsteps, to centralized cartography projects of
ordnance surveys, to the most recent high-tech developments in digital cartography that rely
on the work done by satellite imaging, geographic information systems and even street view

4

cars. Currently, Google dominates consumer mapping, followed by HERE, a company jointly
owned by the largest German automotive companies, and TomTom, known for standalone
Global Positioning System (GPS) units, lagging behind.[2] And that’s a problem, since whoever
controls the map defines how we navigate the world. Even more so for applications that require
consensus-driven and verifiable geospatial data.
Alternative addressing systems have attempted to increase human memorability, verifiability
and machine readability. Notable examples are What3words and Open Location Code. However,
attempts to create a broadly accepted standard around them have failed to materialize as
these systems are either proprietary, like Google, and/or open source projects lacking economic
incentives. What3Words uses unique three-word addresses to divide the world into a grid of
3✕3 m2 squares. In its system, an address such as Banana.Radio.Scent could describe an area
within a field for example. Though What3Words may hope to become a global standard, it is still
a centralized addressing system that charges a license fee.
Other location standards have suffered from similar problems. See ‘An Evaluation of Location
Encoding Systems’ for an overview of these.[3]
example

unique

not proprietary

deterministic

verifiable

cryptospatial

postal

Times Square, Manhattan, NY 10036

no

yes

no

no

no

long/Lat

40.758895,-73.9873197

yes

yes

yes

yes

no

GEOHASH+ETH

XrCNFltAaz5xlHUw6o5GLbtMDqclNn4xqX

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

CSC

5AH71r9wTRp9eHsqR

yes

yes

no

yes

yes

geohash

dr5ru7k

yes*

yes

yes

yes

no

what3words

rocky.silver.funded

yes

no

no

no

no

xaddress

2399 OUT CASTS

yes

no

no

no

no

open location code

Q257+H3

yes

yes

yes

yes

no

makaney code

WWJT-89GN

yes

yes

yes

no

no

yes

yes

yes

no

no

what3emojis

*

https://github.com/google/open-location-code/wiki/Evaluation-of-Location-Encoding-Systems

OpenStreetMap (OSM) is an alternative to Google and other proprietary mapping data,
as an open source and collaborative mapping project which is free to use and created by
millions of participants around the world. OSM is gaining traction on Google, and is currently
used by Mapbox, Apple Maps, PokemonGO, Foursquare, and Craigslist among others. As
the crowdsourced and open map gets better and better, the value of licensing proprietary
mapping data from Google plummets rapidly. But what OSM currently does not do is make it
easy to enforce agreed-upon truths. This is an inhibitor to potential blockchain infrastructure
development, as it needs a location standard for blockchain applications that is free, open
source and interoperable so that protocols can securely connect offline spaces to online assets.

5

User Experience
Similar to a need for a location encoding standard, there also needs to be able to interact,
visualize and reason about the data with an advanced user experience. Examples of such
interfaces exist for centralized geospatial data sets, which are not compatible with open
blockchain infrastructure. Additionally, there are no open user experience standards for
visualizing geospatial data from a blockchain.
Numerous blockchain projects’ use cases have or will need visual mapping
tools for smart contracts such as:
◊
◊
◊
◊
◊

Supply Chain
Energy Markets
Real Estate
Mobility
Location-based games

For any of these blockchain applications a map or visualization component is crucial. Currently
there are no blockchain tools for geospatial data. FOAM aims to provide a solution to this.

Location Verification
Currently there is no reliable and trusted location verification service. It is problematic to rely on
GPS and it is not a viable tool when a smart contract needs to execute autonomously on spatial
information. A backup for GPS is needed because it can be easily spoofed, jammed, or falsified.
This means that there is currently no truly secure way to verify location in blockchain-based
smart contracts or decentralized applications.

The Vulnerabilities of GPS
GPS is the world’s premier Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), consisting of 31 satellites
launched by the U.S. military and made available for civilian and commercial use. GIPS has
become a ubiquitous tool, recently dubbed as “The Technology That Envelops Our Cities —
and Brains” by Alphabet’s Sidewalk Labs. What may not be immediately apparent, is that GPS
technology works through time as much as it does space. Inside each satellite is a high-precision
atomic clock, which sync regularly to master control stations on the ground. GPS receivers,
common in today’s smart phones, must pick up time-stamped signal data from a minimum of
four overhead satellites. By using time stamps to calculate the time of arrival, a receiver can
calculate a triangulated position.
Ordinarily, GPS is reliable, such that society has collectively come to depend on a functioning
geopositioning system. However, its problems, vulnerabilities and limitations have become
increasingly evident. This reliance is evident in a number of industries, including much of the
global financial system. The New York Stock Exchange uses GPS to time automated computer
trades and ATMs and credit card transactions require location data. The electrical grid relies on
GPS synchronized time stamps to deliver electricity without causing power surges, as well as
obvious use cases relating to transportation, navigation, and mobility.[4]

6

Civil GPS is unencrypted, it has no proof-of-origin or authentication features, and despite dire
warnings first raised in 2012, the system remains extremely susceptible to fraud, spoofing,
jamming, and cyberattack.[5] Operational Control System (OCX), the putative next generation
of GPS “will be the first satellite control system designed after the advent of significant jamming
and other cyber threats.” However, the project has been continuously delayed, with a scheduled
launch date now in 2022. Even so, the OCX design fails to address vulnerabilities, “GPS
competitiveness as a worldwide civil system will diminish.”
The limitations of GPS require at least four beacon signals to be overhead, which makes
indoor localization nearly impossible. Urban density and skyscrapers also cause diﬀiculties in
receiving four messages and the issue of multi-path signals occurs within the vicinity of high rise
buildings. Further, for a device, it can take multiple minutes to acquire an accurate coordinate.
When it comes to power consumption, GPS is a drain on battery and is not feasible for lowpowered Internet of Things (IoT) devices.
The goal of Proof of Location is therefore to provide consensus on whether an event or agent
is verifiably at a certain point in time and space while accounting for the above vulnerabilities
inherent in GPS.

GNSS Threats to IoT Positioning

7

Solutions:
Crypto-Spatial Coordinates,
Spatial Index Visualization,
Proof of Location
Crypto-Spatial Coordinates —
the open location standard on Ethereum
The FOAM Crypto-Spatial Coordinate (CSC) is a starting point for this shared location standard,
allowing any smart contract to make an immutable claim to an address on the blockchain and a
corresponding location on the map. Crypto-Spatial Coordinates are Ethereum smart contract
addresses with corresponding addresses positioned in physical space that are verifiable
both on- and off-chain. This allows for physical addresses in the built environment to have a
corresponding smart contract address that is accessible for decentralized applications. The
protocol uses the geohash standard as a basis for this construction because of its conceptual
and mathematical simplicity. Another benefit of the geohash standard is that it is in the public
domain.
The CSC standard can be adopted by any smart contract to make a claim to, or reference, a location
in the physical environment. If adopted across projects and use cases, the CSC allows smart
contract transaction activities to take on a spatial dimension. The CSC can act as a reference point
for spatial events that works for any kind of transaction on Ethereum or other Ethereum Virtual
Machine compatible blockchain. Since geohashes are intrinsically hierarchical, it also means that
a contract referencing a building, and a contract referencing an IoT device located within that
building, automatically have a spatial relationship.

8

Properties of the CSC
The protocol encodes a CSC as a hash with inputs consisting of:
1.
A geohash.
2.
A corresponding Ethereum address.
A key property of the CSC is that it is verifiable both on- and off-chain. This means:
1.
A smart contract can make an immutable claim to a specific location and receive a unique identifier, a CSC, which contains permanent information about both location and the blockchain
address.
2.
Any user can verify off chain if a CSC is where it claims to be by visiting the location, and
verifying the information on the blockchain.
3.
Any other smart contract is able to reference the registry of all CSCs and determine any
particular contract’s physical location and blockchain address.
4.
Two smart contracts should be able to compute their location and spatial relationship between themselves on-chain with the data provided by the CSC standard.
The approximate resolution of a CSC is one square meter. This resolution allows for a maximum
of approximately 500 trillion unique locations.

The CSC Functionality
1.

2.

 or geographical input, the
F
protocol uses a geohash represented by a value 10 characters in length in a format
based on the base32 encoding standard. The alphabet
used is the standard geohash
alphabet as defined here. [6]
This amounts to approximately 50 bits.
For the Ethereum address,
the protocol uses a 160 bit
standard, associated with the
address of a contract.

base32, 48 bits

base16, 160 bits

drrehu19f

0x7d551397f74a2988b024afd0efe4ee802c7721bc

base16, 256 bits
0x3b0556fae1e228878fb35b24e0a5f9c4f13b59035ff899e03f56c0a13250616

base58, 96 bits
6UwLL9Risc3QfPqBUvKo

For ease of visual human
reference, the protocol displays
the first 8 characters in this representation and the shorter a CSC address is, the larger the
area it represents. Longer addresses represent more specific claims to locations, a similar
hierarchical concept to telephone area codes or ZIP codes.
In conclusion, the CSC is effectively a human readable paired representation of a geohash and
an Ethereum address, together with an immutable pairing of the two on the blockchain. It is
possible to verify the CSC of a contract and its associated geohash. The protocol allows the
CSC to be mapped back to the original geohash and address on-chain using the registry for any
smart contract to utilize and reference.

9

The Spatial Index
and Visualizer
A General Purpose
Visual Blockchain Explorer
The Spatial Index and Visualizer (together, the “SIV”) can serve
as the front-end interface for any decentralized application that
needs to visualize smart contracts on a map.
CSCs enable the blockchain to act as a reliable reference point
of spatial-related smart contracts using CSCs and, by extension,
allow spatial-related smart contracts using CSCs to be queried
and displayed on the SIV. As an open-source web-app, the SIV
is a visual user experience interface that is intended to (i) allow
users to interact with, understand, engage with, and act on smart
contracts using CSCs and (ii) serve as the foundation of a large
variety of decentralized applications that could be built on top of
the FOAM protocol.

10

Properties of the Spatial Index
and Visualizer
The SIV is an explorer for geospatial assets on the Ethereum blockchain.
The full architecture of the application consists of:

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

 front-end interface application
A
that is a visual explorer written in
purescript coding language
Interactive visualization components that can be used to
visualize network activity usage
leveraging Mapbox as a base
map.
Interactive elements with independent identity solutions
Metamask and uPort for secure
transaction signing and authentication.
The ability to interact with
the Spatial Index through the
common internet protocol
Representational State Protocol (REST) application programming interface (API), allowing
other services to use the Spatial Index.
The ability to perform queries
on the indexed log of Ethereum
address states produced by the
Spatial Index of CSC referenced
smart contracts with ElasticSearch functionality.

menu

deck.gl

react,
purescript-web3

metamask

FOAM smart contracts

ABI

REST API

docs

indexer

cliquebait

ethereum
ethereum

servant
mock

haskell

servant
client

servant
swagger

purescript

DB
pg,redis,
es

ethereum
ethereum

kubernetes

The REST API could utilize the data store of the spatial index for FOAM-based proof of location
applications, and also act as an open API for other applications seeking access to data generated
by CSC referenced smart contracts.
The SIV explorer displays the data from the REST API in meaningful ways, including by reference
to Mapbox as a base map. In addition, the Visualizer allows the user to interact with SIV
referenced smart contracts in an ordinary web browser via independent identity solutions
Metamask or uPort.
Independent project Metamask allows users to access Ethereum decentralized applications
(dApps) such as the Spatial Index right in their browser without running a full Ethereum node.
MetaMask includes a secure identity vault, providing a user interface to manage your identities
on different websites and sign blockchain transactions. The MetaMask add-on is in Chrome,
Firefox, Opera, and the new Brave browser.

11

uPort is an independent self-sovereign identity system that is designed to allow people to
own their identity, fully control the flow of their personal information, and authenticate
themselves in various contexts — both on and off the blockchain. uPort is fully integrated
into the SIV. The uPort integration means you can now use your uPort identity wallet to
deploy CSC referenced smart contracts and sign transactions directly through the web
application functionality of the SIV.
The main achievement and contribution of this design would be allowing users to interact
with the Ethereum blockchain and deploy smart contracts with geospatial parameters
from within a web browser. The architecture of the SIV forms a smooth loop of events,
from web-app, to blockchain, to the Spatial Index indexing function, and back to the app.
The protocol uses some of the most advanced and novel software available for the task,
including the languages, the data processing units, and container-based cluster protocol
that supports all of it.

The SIV functionality

1. Navigate CSCs:
Spatially-specific CSCreferenced smart contracts
are displayed directly in the
application. Users could
apply filters to display CSCs
according to each use-case.

2. Deploy
a Smart Contract:
A CSC is deployed as a
smart contract directly
referenced by the
Spatial Index by using
Metamask or uPort.

3. Visualize
new CSC-referencing
smart contracts within
the Spatial Index:
The Spatial Index protocol checks
when a new CSC-referenced
smart contract is deployed,
and automatically visualize
it in the SIV.

The general design of the SIV is to enable a vast number of potential applications across
different markets, for example a user interface for a decentralized ride-sharing ecosystem
that empowers drivers and passengers to transact without middlemen, a control panel for
blockchain-based supply chain management, or a spatial bounty game that may have similar
elements as Ingress, Pokemon Go and CryptoKitties. While these applications may not yet
exist, the goal of CSCs and the SIV is to provide a necessary utility layer to enable their further
development. Although the CSCs and the SIV do not require the FOAM Token to function, they
exist as necessary underlying architecture to allow the use of the proof of location function,
described further below.

12

Proof of Location
Verifiable and Secure Proof of Location
The goal of the Proof of Location solution is to provide the framework and infrastructure to
support a decentralized, privacy preserving, highly accurate, censorship resistant alternative
to GPS. FOAM is a shared and open protocol that is not rent seeking and does not charge
or receive any centralized fees. Location is a fundamental infrastructure protocol needed
to achieve the full vision of a decentralized ‘web3’ economy and can foster an ecosystem of
applications built on top of a verified location standard.
Proof of Location is the primary utility arising from use of the CSC and SIV elements discussed
above. Proof of Location will inherently be an iterative process which involves the use of token
curated registries by users to contribute, verify and determine Proofs of Location.

Properties of the
Proof of Location Protocol
Token Curated Registries
for Geographic Points of Interest
As outlined above, the CSC standard is a registry that enables the blockchain to act as a registry
of spatial contracts and, by extension, allow spatial contracts to be queried and displayed on
the Spatial Index Visualizer. Token Curated Registries (TCRs) are a crypto-economic model
for curating human readable lists with intrinsic economic incentives for independent token
holders to curate the list’s contents. The content of the list is backed by staked FOAM Tokens
and FOAM Token holders vote on additions to the list with the goal of raising the value of their
token by producing a valuable list, as described in more detail below. The theory and thinking
behind TCRs is somewhat comparable to private maps and locally curated points of interest —
the contributors are incentivized to ensure a high-quality result, for economic or reputational
reasons.
CSCs and TCRs together make a powerful combination for a new form of mapping and
maintaining what are known as Points of Interest (POI). In this light, FOAM users can be the
contextualized successors to the work of cartographers throughout history that maintained
geographic data about everything from topography to dense urban streets. However, FOAM
takes this history a step further by granting control over the registries of POI to locally-based
markets and community forces, allowing the information provided to be validated by those who
contribute to the relevant locality.

+
CSC

=
TCR

POI

13

Historically, maps were created and maintained by centralized entities, usually a government,
and were sometimes slow to update and always prone to human error or deliberate censorship.
Not until the recent boom of digital cartography have maps become meaningfully democratized.
Maps have never been so readily and easily available to the public. However, one of the most
valuable aspects of the map are the Points of Interest. In today’s terms that translates to where
are the stores, cafes, restaurants and malls, where a fleet of vehicles in a ride sharing program
like Uber should be anticipating if demand is shifting or surging, or which traffic bottlenecks
drivers should avoid on an app such as Waze.
POI data is notoriously closed and proprietary. Foursquare is a leader in this field, collecting
data from user check-ins, however Google remains the ultimate leader, with a competitive
“moat” around its innovative data-sets. It algorithmically generates “Areas of Interest” out of
its own proprietary data sets. For Google, POI data is not collected but created out of Street
View and Satellite View data which allows an unprecedented quality, coverage, and scale that is
substantially ahead of any competitor.
The output of a TCR is a list/registry, and the result for any CSC is binary — it is either in or it
is out. The list/registry is curated by FOAM Token holders that are incentivized to generate a
valuable list of integrity, with the value of the registry ultimately being determined by how useful
it is and if it acts as a good focal point of information about the world. However, whereas the
concept of a TCR in the abstract is often thought of as subjective (i.e. participants may develop
TCRs about inherently subjective lists/registries such as the best movies, beaches or whiskies),
in the case of FOAM, the TCR is objective and location-based. The entity applying to be on the
list is either physically there or not — there can be no subjectivity with respect to CSC candidates.
As a result, a POI list curated by FOAM Token holders can serve as a social Proof of Location for
smart contracts that represent fixed places. From a location point of view, for a business or any
POI there could be great benefits in the form of foot traffic, customers and exposure for being
listed on particular registries/maps that may develop. Of course notwithstanding the objectivity
of location based TCRs generally, it is possible users may also deploy TCRs for subjective uses
also, such as a list of the best coffee shops in a particular area.
The FOAM TCR has three kinds of actors: Consumers that want to utilize the list, Candidates
that want to be on the list and Cartographers (i.e. FOAM Token holders) that curate the list. The
crux of the incentive game is to include reputable information and exclude faulty information
to ensure a reliable and useful TCR is maintained. This is done through staking tokens to the
information on the list. Let’s look at an example location TCR for FOAM:

1. L
 ocation Candidates submit a FOAM Token deposit in order to add a Point of Interest to the
registry with a corresponding CSC.
2. In doing so, they have to wait out a challenge information to ensure a reliable and useful
TCR is maintained. If honest and reputable, none of the Cartographers should dispute this
Candidate and the POI will become part of the list after the completion of the challenge
period. The deposit is then locked through the TCR smart contract, and the tokens are
staked to that POI's listing.
3. During the challenge period, if another current Cartographer feels that this proposed POI
will degrade the quality of that particular registry, they can issue a challenge, by submitting
an equal amount of tokens to the proposed listing Candidate’s deposit. This initiates a voting
period among the Cartographers.
4. Because POI data is objective, voting Cartographers have the ability to verify the
Candidate in person.

14

5. C
 artographers then proceed to vote whether to include or deny this Point of Interest to
the registry. Any current Cartographer can then vote, the result of which is based on the
quorum of FOAM Tokens voting.
6. After the voting period, if the challenging Cartographer succeeds, the proposing
Candidate's staked token deposit is distributed to the challenging Cartographer and the
winning Cartographer voters as a reward for helping to curate the registry.
7. If the challenge is unsuccessful and the Candidate’s proposal is affirmed by a majority of
Cartographer voters, a percentage of the challenging Cartographer’s deposit is forfeited
to the Candidate whose Point of Interest was affirmed. In addition, a certain percentage
of the losing challenging Cartographers' staked tokens, by reference to each losing
voter’s token proportion to all tokens staked for this particular challenge within the TCR,
is transferred to the winning voting bloc, again by reference to each winning voter’s
token weight within the TCR. The FOAM TCR is interacted with through the SIV.
Cartographers will be able to vote and change the modular parameters of the FOAM TCR, such as
the window of time in which a Cartographer can challenge a Candidate or in which Cartographers
can cast their votes. Multiple TCRs could also be developed by different communities or users,
allowing for potentially different registries of business types or maps dedicated to particular
purposes.

Signaling
A further potential use of the FOAM Token by Cartographers is to stake their tokens to Signal.
Signaling is a mechanism designed to allow Cartographers to incentivize the growth and
geographic coverage of the FOAM network. To Signal, a Cartographer stakes FOAM Tokens
to a Signaling smart contract by reference to a particular area. These staked tokens serve as
indicators of demand, and are proportionate (i) the length of time staking (the earlier, the
better), and (ii) the number of tokens staked (the less well-served areas, the better). In the
context of the Dynamic Proof of Location utility discussed further below, these indicators are
the weighted references that determine the spatial mining rewards.
Cartographers will Signal where location services are needed, and in doing so increase the
eventual block reward (the FOAM Tokens received through the mining process described
below) of that location. This incentive mechanism is to coordinate Cartographers, in a grass
roots fashion, to operate the protocol and further incentivize Cartographers to potentially
operate Dynamic Proof of Location Zones themselves. While the goal of the Signal function
is to incentivize the growth of the FOAM network and the increased adoption of the dynamic
Proof of Location functionality described further below, there is no guarantee that those
incentives will work as intended or result in predictable outcomes. While the Signal smart
contract is designed to develop and grow the network, it is always possible that other economic
incentives and behaviors could disrupt or alter the expected operation of the Signal function in
unforeseen ways, up to and including possible negative outcomes for FOAM Network adoption,
participation and utility.

15

Dynamic Proof of Location
While the Proof of Location utility is currently achieved through the TCR process described
above, it could be strengthened through the Signaling process and the strengthening of the
network further through the process described here.
All Cartographers should be mindful that the FOAM Token exists to provide functionality
with respect to the FOAM TCR only at launch, which is intended to provide Proof of Location
functionality for static objects, and the Signal function. What follows is the potential outline of
an expanded form of Proof of Location which is intended to supplement the TCR, potentially
providing Proof of Location functionality to transitory things. It is described here for illustrative
and descriptive purposes only and on a non-promissory basis. Dynamic Proof of Location's
ultimate adoption would depend on a variety of factors, including FOAM user adoption, the
organic community-driven expansion of the network and the requisite addition of radio
hardware by, and at the expense of, individual FOAM users. As such, if or when it is adopted
cannot be stated with any certainty. As described above, the Signal function is intended to assist
in that development but there is no guarantee that it will achieve its goal, in whole or in part, or
operate as intended.
However, FOAM hopes that the Cartographers and users will contribute the necessary individual
work, resources, and effort themselves to contribute to the ongoing community-driven growth
and supplement this important cartography project. With the addition and use of necessary radio
hardware, as described in more detail below, Proof of Location could be expanded to further
prove location status through a time synchronization protocol intended to ensure continuity of a
distributed clock, whereby specialized hardware can synchronize nodes’ clocks over radio to provide
location services in a given area, called a Zone (the nodes providing such services being Verifiers and
Anchors (collectively, the operators)). Just as GPS can determine location through the difference
in time and distance of radio signals, time difference of arrival, with a high-precision clock signal,
the FOAM network can use the relative geometry between beacons to compute a node’s distance,
thereby enabling a secure, spatially distributed location system. In that context, the FOAM token
would be used as a form of protocol participation deposit for Zone operators, which is needed to
enable operators to provide the necessary work of time synchronization to the network and serve as
collateral that the rules of the protocol will be followed. If the rules of the protocol are not followed
by the Zone operators, their license would be revoked by the FOAM protocol and their staked FOAM
tokens forfeited to other Zone operators in accordance with the FOAM protocol. Zone operators are
rewarded in new tokens for providing their work, in the form of time synchronization services, to the
network.
Verifiers are computers that check Zones for fraud and compute location algorithms from the
time data. Together the work provided by the Verifier and Zone allow them to mine triangulations.
Their collective output result in data that can be computed for triangulation and in return for this
process these actors are eligible for newly issued tokens from the FOAM protocol as a [reward
for this output]. In return for a Zone operator providing this service, they may receive a fee from
customers who wish to verify their location through the protocol. The denomination of this fee
would depend on the preference of the Zone. Proof of Location can therefore provide consensus
on whether an event or agent is verifiably at a certain point in time and space producing a digital
authentication certificate that is fraud proof, called a Presence Claim.
As discussed above, one use of the FOAM Token would be as the form of deposit to participate
in the protocol correctly and contribute the necessary work, security and computation that
enables time synchronization.

16

The staking of the token is needed on the Ethereum blockchain for the Zone operators to be
granted access to the shared state machine of any given Zone, meaning each Zone is its own
'child' blockchain.
The FOAM Token further provides the framework and incentive for Zone operators to set up
specialized hardware beacons to broadcast coverage, further participate in the protocol and
develop an overlaying peer-to-peer network of radio beacons called Zone Anchors. Zone
Anchors can arrive at consensus on whether something is located at a certain point in time
and space based on these radio beacons. Anchors that are part of a Zone will share a state
machine on the history of the time data logs of the Zone and vote on additions to the log with
a blockchain consensus. A Zone operates as its own blockchain where the validators are the
Zone Anchors, which need to stake tokens to be given the authority to participate. In addition
to providing Zone operators with the ability to participate within a Zone, the token could also
permit operators who choose to purchase the requisite hardware to offer location services via
Zone Anchors, which would be similarly verified through the network-based consensus rules.
Although any such upgrade would be dependent on the technological points discussed in the
paragraphs below, from a network standpoint such upgrade could be achieved at a future date
by voting/consensus mechanism within a particular FOAM TCR community that it would require
such Zone verification from a certain point in time.

There are a number of radio technologies and techniques for localization/positioning systems
that might be suitable for this task. While the Proof of Location protocol is hardware agnostic,
the most promising is likely to be a form of radio technology called Low Power Wide Area
Networks (LPWAN). LPWAN has potentially low throughput, but can offer the low power and
longer battery life of bluetooth with the range of cellular while operating on the unlicensed radio
spectrum, meaning no license would ordinarily be required. LoRa is a type of LPWAN particularly
suited for a secure and decentralized network due to properties that make it difficult to detect
and jam. It is permissionless, meaning anyone can install and maintain a node. Communities
have emerged in major cities around LoRa open libraries and what is called The Things Network,
creating a fruitful ground for future self-organized communities for Proof of Location.

17

Existing LoRa gateway operators can serve as the first FOAM Zone operators to offer location
services and bootstrap the еxisting coverage though user participation.

The Things Network Zurich

The Things Network Sydney

While this radio hardware and technology is available today, the FOAM token provides users
with a fundamental economic incentive to purchase, install and maintain a beacon enabling
them to better participate in, and provide work to, the network. With blockchain-based utility
tokens, infrastructure can grow from the bottom up, without the need for central planning.
Currently, there is no reliable way to calibrate the Dynamic Proof of Location without an
initial commitment of Zone operators, and it is hoped that this potential spread of initial Zone
operators can provide important calibration and improvements prior to the upgrade of the
Proof of Location functionality. Bitcoin introduced the Proof of Work consensus mechanism
which incentivizes an infrastructure of miners to use their computational power to make the
network secure. With tokenized block rewards, Bitcoin demonstrated how to build decentralized
infrastructure, offering people returns for joining and participating in the network. In other
words, just as the growth of Bitcoin, Ethereum, and many other blockchains were assisted by
crypto-economic incentives, so too is the FOAM protocol assisted by incentives to build out the
hardware to provide a decentralized alternative to GPS. Similar to other blockchain mining, Zone
operators on the FOAM protocol are in essence providing comparable work to Bitcoin miners.
Moreover, safety deposits held in smart contracts increase network resilience. With Ethereum’s
potential move to Proof of Stake consensus, the protocol can reward network participation
and penalize malicious actors. In Proof of Stake blockchain protocols, participants commit a
staked deposit of tokens to operate as a validator and obtain voting power. Stakers accrue a
larger reward by participating correctly in the consensus protocol. A required security deposit
is at the core of these incentive systems. If faulty behavior is detected by a node, the deposited
tokens are destroyed and forfeited (‘slashed’). FOAM uses crypto-economic incentives to grow a
decentralized network of location-based services providers, employing staking and slashing to
ensure location claims can be trusted. More specifically, Proof of Location utilizes token staking
incentives to grow network coverage and utilize a verifier set for fraud proofs, and enforce
protocol rules. Staked deposits allow for attributable byzantine behavior in the form of slashing
conditions. The required staked deposit and risk of loss for faulty behavior is at the core of the
incentive systems. If faulty behavior is detected, the staked tokens are destroyed and forfeited
by the protocol.

18

Further, with smart contracts, participating Zone operators can enter into Service Level
Agreements (SLAs) with particular projects, businesses or locations that require greater
coverage and support. Zone operators can encourage commitment to these agreements with
token deposits locked into a smart contract. An SLA might therefore enable autonomous
service providers to maintain hardware nodes and extend coverage to offer services to
particular projects, businesses or locations. Such potential SLAs are related to the Zones
discussed above, and are not currently envisaged with respect to the existing utility of the
FOAM TCR Proof of Location.
In order to ensure appropriate adoption, diffusion and growth of the FOAM network, all FOAM Token
purchasers must prove their use of the FOAM Token upon receipt of their FOAM Tokens. Token holders
can do this through either of the two initial utilities: (i) staking to a TCR, or (i) staking to the Signal
smart contract on the Spatial Index. This requirement is intended to ensure that purchasers both
understand and intend to contribute efforts as Cartographers in building out the FOAM Network. If
purchasers fail to become Cartographers by proving their use, their FOAM Tokens will be incapable of
transfer until such use is proven in accordance with this process.

Proof of Location Functionality

1. Trustless:

2. Independent:

3. Open:

Byzantine fault
tolerant clock
synchronization.

Does not rely on a
centralized service
such as GPS.

Anyone can utilize
the network or offer
utility services.

4. Accountable:

5. Incentivized:

The economics are
structured to ensure
honest behavior and
verified with fraud
proofs.

Service providers may
be remunerated for
extending localization and
verification zones.

Crypto-economic incentives may further provide a means of developing decentralized
infrastructure that is even more secure and encourages further network participation as further
described above. Such hardware development is not guaranteed, may not develop and is not
available at launch.

19

Block Rewards
Zone Anchors and Zone Authorities are rewarded FOAM Token block rewards for setting up and
maintaining Zones. This provides Zone Anchors and Zone Authorities with revenue in addition
to any transaction fees they might be paid for validating location claims. Block rewards and the
increase of a physical infrastructure will hopefully contribute to extending the geographical
coverage of Proof of Location and its network effects. As discussed above, staking FOAM
tokens allows a Zone operator to receive a share of transaction fees proportional to their stake.
However, FOAM establishes a mechanism to incentivize the staking of tokens in a geographically
diverse manner. This Signaling occurs on the Spatial Index, where users place indicators in areas
where they need decentralized location-based services, which are then recognized within the
token reward structure of the block rewards. FOAM uses general staking, proposing a spatial
weighting for nodes that provide the security of the blockchain. Additionally, tokens in block
rewards are spatially weighted by the signal. This further incentivizes the growth and dissipation
of the network across a variety of users and locations.
Prior to the initiation of mining, participants will signal where location services are needed, and
in doing so increase the eventual block reward of that location. This incentive mechanism is to
coordinate contributors, in a grass roots fashion, to operating the protocol.

The Spatial Index Visualizer displaying Signals.

20

Dynamic Proof of Location anticipated
to verify location claims in 7 steps:

1. Zone Anchors and Zone
Authorities

2. Clock
Synchronization

 adio beacons (Zone Anchors) and Radio
R
gateways (Zone Authorities) are established
and form a network to synchronize their
internal clocks without the need for a
trusted third party. With an encrypted and
self-stabilizing time signal established, the
network can determine spatial arrangements.

 one Anchors and Zone Authorities send
Z
messages until a consensus can be formed
on the precise time. The timed difference
of messages sent and received allows for
location to be calculated and the geometry
of the network to be determined.

3. Zone Formation

4. Triangulation

Once synchronized, Zone Authorities establish
Zones and pledge to offer location services
that are enforced by smart contract safety
deposits.

 ones can provide presence claims for
Z
customers in a competitive market for a
transaction fee. This is done while Zones are
resynchronizing clocks and publishing their
time logs to a data store.

5. Verification

6. Proof of Location

 gents that contribute computational power,
A
called Verifiers, check the time logs of Zones
for fraud.

Verifiers send Fraud Proofs to the root chain
(Ethereum Blockchain) and the Proof of
Location certificates are getting created.

Note: these features will not be available at the time of sale, and are displayed for information
purposes only. The availability of these features in the future will depend on the circumstances
described in the Dynamic Proof of Location section of this document.

21

Participating in the FOAM Network
as a Cartographer – A Summary:
At launch, FOAM token holders can become Cartographers and can contribute to their locality
and interests by curating, mapping and verifying the locations of static objects. As the FOAM
network grows and Cartographers begin to fully explore and map the world, once the necessary
technical upgrades are made, FOAM token holders may decide to contribute to the network as
one of the entities below. In order to prepare their area for these upgrades, the Cartographers
can also stake tokens in the Signaling process, to incentivize dynamic Proof of Location services
to be offered in their area.
The FOAM protocol provides the technology, framework and incentives for service operators to set
up hardware Zone Anchors, broadcast coverage, and earn block rewards. In the Proof of Location
protocol there are three classes of nodes: Zone Authorities are full nodes, Zone Anchors are partial
nodes, and Verifiers ‘mine’ triangulations, computing locations from time stamped data.

Zone Anchor

Zone Authority

Verifier

The FOAM Token is the native software utility token of the FOAM network. To begin offering
location-based services as a Zone Anchor or Zone Authority, or to offer computing power as
a Verifier, tokens must be staked and will be held as safety deposit over a limited time. This
staking ensures that fraudulent behavior which violates protocol rules can be penalized.
FST
FST

FST
FST
FST

FST

Zone Anchor

Zone Authority

Verifier

Potential Applications of Dynamic Proof of Location
Proof of Location is intended to ultimately play a key role in our decentralized future, opening
new marketplaces enabled by privacy-preserving location data. FOAM hopes to foster an
ecosystem of applications in an array of verticals. Supply chain management, autonomous
vehicle and ride sharing, gaming, and the Internet of Things (IoT) all stand to potentially benefit
immensely from secure verified location data that can be used to prevent fraud. However,
as noted above, these potential efficiencies are dependent on the significant contingencies
outlined in this document and should not be read as a reflection of current FOAM Token utility.

22

Technical Whitepaper
View our white paper for an in-depth technical explanation of proof of location. Please note that
information contained in the whitepaper or blog may have been superseded and/or altered
since the time of publication. Such information is provided for informational purposes only,
may not reflect the utility or functionality of the FOAM token at launch, and should not be relied
upon as purchasing or any other form of advice under any circumstances.

FOAM
Technical
Whitepaper

05.01.2018

Foamspace Corp
info@foam.space

https://github.com/f-o-a-m/public-research

1.

 PU White Paper: Addressing the World — an Address for Everyone [Internet]. Universal
U
Postal Union; 2012.
Available from: http://www.upu.int/fileadmin/documentsFiles/activities/addressingAssistance/whitePaperAddressingTheWorldEn.pdf

2.

 he Economist. The battle for territory in digital cartography [Internet] The Economist
T
Group; 2017 Jun 10.
Available from: https://www.economist.com/news/business/21723173-not-all-roads-leadgoogle-maps-battle-territory-digital-cartography

3.

J Hunt. Evaluation of Location Encoding Systems [Internet] GitHub; 2018.
Available from: https://github.com/google/open-location-code/wiki/Evaluation-of-Location-Encoding-Systems/_history

4.

 im Fernholz. The entire global financial system depends on GPS, and it’s shockingly vulT
nerable to attack [Internet]. Quartz; 2017 Oct 22.
Available from: https://qz.com/1106064/the-entire-global-financial-system-depends-on-gps-and-its-shockingly-vulnerable-to-attack

5.

 arah Scoles. Spoof, Jam, Destroy: Why We Need a Backup for GPS [Internet] Wired;
S
2018 Jan 3.
Available from: https://www.wired.com/story/spoof-jam-destroy-why-we-need-a-backup-for-gps

6.

 eohash [Internet] Wikipedia; 2018.
G
Available from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geohash

