FORTKNOXSTER
WHITEPAPER
What happens in FortKnoxster – stays in FortKnoxster.
Version 2.0 · 7 August 2019

“If you spend more on coffee than on IT security,
you will be hacked for sure.”
Quote: Richard Clarke, US Government cyber-security expert.

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

© 2019. All rights reserved.

Disclaimer
The information provided in this document is provided "as is" without warranty of any
kind. In no event shall we nor our advisors be liable for any damages whatsoever
including direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, loss of business profits or special
damages, even if we or our advisors have been advised of the possibility of such
damages.
Document lifetime
We may occasionally update online documentation between releases of the related
software. Consequently, if this document was not downloaded recently, it may not
contain up-to-date information. Please refer to www.fortKnoxster.com for the most
current information.
Product information — For documentation, release notes, software updates, or for
information about products, licensing, and service, please refer to
https://FortKnoxster.com or https://t.me/fortknoxster or https://medium.com/fortknoxster.
Technical support — For technical support, please refer to FortKnoxster.com and select
Support. On the Support page you will see several options, including one for making a
request.
Your comments
We value your opinion. Suggestions will help us continue to improve the accuracy,
organization and overall quality of the user publications, so please feel free to email
hello@FortKnoxster.com with any queries.
If you have comments or questions about specific information or procedures, please
include the title and, if available, the revision, the page numbers, and any other details
that will help us locate the subject that you are addressing.
Trademarks
FortKnoxster is a registered trademark of FortKnoxster Ltd.

1|Page
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Table of Contents
Executive Summary ............................................................................................................... 3
Introduction ............................................................................................................................ 4
Challenge............................................................................................................................... 5
What is FortKnoxster? ............................................................................................................ 7
Our Mission Statement ........................................................................................................ 11
Why Use Encryption? .......................................................................................................... 12
Why Use blockchain? ......................................................................................................... 13
Our Technology ................................................................................................................... 14
FKX Token Utility.................................................................................................................... 18
Token Generation Event..................................................................................................... 21
FortKnoxster Roadmap ....................................................................................................... 22
Our Core Team .................................................................................................................... 23
Final Words ........................................................................................................................... 27
Appendix 1: Technology Overview .................................................................................. 28
Appendix 2: The GDPR Regulation ................................................................................... 39
Appendix 3: Terms of Service............................................................................................. 41
Appendix 4: Privacy Policy................................................................................................. 45

2|Page
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Executive Summary
Our world is changing faster than ever and it’s hard to keep up with new
trends, buzz-words, and emerging technologies. The use of the blockchain
technology is at an all-time-high. The number of different crypto currencies
are now counted in the thousands, when it comes to different tokens, coins,
digital assets or whatever one chooses to call them.
Unfortunately, the rate of cyber-crimes is also at an all-time-high and being
online has never been as unsafe as now. Hacks, mass-surveillance,
espionage, virus, malware, phishing, extortion… the list of attacks is long,
and it keeps growing day by day, as the attackers are getting more
sophisticated, aggressive and creative.
FBI states that we have entered a cyber-crime epidemic and that cybercrimes have surpassed “normal” old-school crimes - both in force and
damage.
The team behind FortKnoxster, who are experienced cyber-security and
crypto engineers, has spent over 3 years developing a “Fort Knox” of an
end-to-end encrypted communication platform.

"FortKnoxster has leveraged the use of the blockchain and
sophisticated end-to-end encryption techniques into a userfriendly all-in-one communication platform, where users can
communicate privately and safely, be it through inbox, chat,
phone/video calls, file-storage etc. FortKnoxster eliminates the
risk of hacks, cyber-threats and centralised government
surveillance."
FortKnoxster is the world’s first all-in-one peer-to-peer encrypted
communication platform.
FortKnoxster is all you need to communicate, interact and work safely in an
online world dominated by growing cyber-crimes.
Since day one, FortKnoxster is one of the few token sales backed by a
working product.

3|Page
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Introduction
FortKnoxster is a cyber-security company, specialized in developing secure
and encrypted communication solutions. The company has developed a
unique encryption platform, which is aimed at the B2C market and B2B
market.
The platform comes as an E-a-a-S solution (Encryption-as-a-Service).
FortKnoxster has been designed with a unique architecture and features,
which enables everybody to use our platform for all their communications
and data-storage needs.
FortKnoxster addresses one of the biggest challenges in our modern society;
To protect communications and data from cyber-criminals - and at the
same time maintain a very high level of privacy.
New complex regulations, increasing adoption of new technologies (IoT,
BYOD, cloud-services etc.) have fuelled the need for enhanced security
and encryption more than ever. The new laws and regulations are very
strict, and FortKnoxster offers one of the best “plug-and-play” solutions to
comply with most of these new laws.
FortKnoxster can be used by anyone at any time, regardless of you being on
a laptop/desktop or on-the-go with your smartphone or tablet.
The FortKnoxster platform has been penetration tested by a range of good
(and bad) hackers and “cypherpunks” worldwide - and has “passed its
exam”, as nobody has managed to compromise our platform in any way or
access any end-to-end encrypted accounts or content.

“Encryption should be enabled for everything by default, not a
feature you turn on only if you're doing something you consider
worth protecting. Encryption is the most important privacypreserving technology we have.”
Quote; Bruce Schneier, American cryptographer, computer security professional, privacy specialist
and writer.

4|Page
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Challenge
Online connection is now essential for almost everybody, creating new
opportunities for innovation, interaction with friends, family and business
partners - and global growth.
Cyber-crime, cyber-criminals and their tools are becoming more diverse
and sophisticated. Cyber-crime now comes in a variety of forms, and unless
consumers, businesses, and governments act now, cyber-crimes could
threaten the fundament of our society in many devastating ways.
In the near future, as ubiquitous computing technology pervades more of
our lives, these threats will grow. The intuitive interfaces that we increasingly
value – and depend on – are often where all the problems arise.
Using the Internet and communicating online, has never been as unsafe as
now - and it gets worse every day. Hackers pose a huge threat with cybercrime forecast to cost over $3 trillion by 2019, according to Juniper
Research.

“Cyber-crime is the greatest threat to every company in
the world”
Quote: IBM CEO Ginni Rometty

Today’s cyber-criminals are often highly motivated professionals, well-funded
by competing enterprises, criminal organizations or nation-states, which are
persistent in their efforts to break through and damage the opponent as
much as possible.
According to a fresh PWC survey, both small and large enterprises have seen
a sharp rise in online security breaches, reporting that over 80% of enterprises
and SMEs suffered a security breach last year. Most executive respondents
expect that there will be more security incidents ahead and there is “no
good news” when talking about cyber-security (or lack of) in the future.
Also, the cost of the actual breaches continues to soar and has more than
doubled in one year. An average enterprise with 500 employees, which
experience an online security breach, ends up with a net bill of over 3.5
million USD in lost sales, business disruption, recovery of assets, loss of clients,
fines & compensations, etc. And adding to this is the damaged image and
humiliation.
5|Page
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

In the last few years we have heard much about the power of big data,
which is allowing companies to offer more tailored, targeted and
personalised products and services than ever before. The benefit of this to
the consumer may be obvious, but it raises many ethical questions, and not
just when personal data is in the hands of unscrupulous businesses.
It’s been clear for some time that data laws (or lack of) did damage
consumers and their privacy and has resulted in the enforcement of the
GDPR law. (General Data Protection Regulation). The law aims to give
citizens more control over their data and to create a uniformity of rules to
enforce across the continent. The huge challenges for most companies are
now, how to comply with this new rather strict law which kicked in on the
25th May 2018.
Some of the biggest companies of our time like Google and Facebook have
been created by gathering and using user data of its users to advertise to 3rd
Parties. Everything you do or say inside these platforms gets recorded,
stored, analysed and the main point of having you there, is to make money
on your profile and whereabouts.
Add to this the general mass surveillance by most governments tracking and
logging everything you do online 24/7 – and stores it forever. And even more
intimidating – these government servers get hacked all the time, so your
data is in the hands of criminals…
Needless to say, there are many potential dangers (and ethical issues)
associated with the proliferation of digital profiling, from hacking, to
discrimination, to an Orwellian surveillance state. There’s a big difference
between what companies could and should know.
Online activity leaves footprints -- log files, access entries or data that is
created in the systems they used. Once these privacy controls are rolled
back, Internet Service Providers will be able to sell the information they
capture about how you and your patrons use the Internet.
The loss of online privacy is making it a lot easier for IT-criminals as those
giant companies on a regular basis get hacked and all (your) data are now
in the hands of potential hostile organisations or people who seek to profit
from your data.
Although we can all find ways to protect ourselves, the only real way to
avoid the tracking and “stealing” of our data is to stop using these free
services altogether and protect our communications with end-to-end
encryption like FortKnoxster.
6|Page
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

What is FortKnoxster?
FortKnoxster is a one-stop communication, collaboration and file storage
platform.
Think of it as a mix of all your favourite (unsecure) everyday apps like Skype,
Slack, Telegram, Dropbox, Facetime, Gmail etc. - all gathered in one top
secure platform with the highest privacy you can achieve.
The above-mentioned conventional apps are great, but they often come
with many security challenges. First of all, as these services are free, “you are
the product” meaning, all your data and communication are being read,
stored, sold – and often hacked where they are stored. There is absolutely
no privacy as most of these companies’ business models is to generate as
much income as possible from selling (your) data to the highest 3. party
bidder.
FortKnoxster is your safe alternative, as we can’t (nor can’t anybody else)
read your data or communications at all, because it is end-to-end
encrypted. Even if we could, our business model is exactly the opposite as
most others, we are in the business of protecting your data, not selling it to
the highest bidder.
FortKnoxster is extremely easy to use as it requires no extra plug-in
instalments what so ever. Users are literally up running within minutes and
can start to enjoy the extreme safety level and intuitive interface.
It is also easy to invite friends, family or business-partners into the platform.
FortKnoxster was designed to be used by everyone and hence there is no
need for technical knowledge in order to use the platform.
If you want to download the FortKnoxster app, please click here.

7|Page
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

FortKnoxster Main Features:
•

Inbox

Messages are end-to-end encrypted and as secure as it gets. Send
messages to colleagues, friends, clients and business partners with peace of
mind.
•

File Storage

Store your valuable data encrypted – and make sure it stays yours. Easy to
share and manage files and folders seamlessly.
•

Chat

Real-time secure chat for fast and instant communications. Comes with
voice messages, group chat and much more.
•

Video Calling

Secure video calling without snooping from competitors or external
surveillance. The most private calling you can get on both web and mobile.
•

Group Conferencing

Collaborate securely by chatting, calling, sharing files etc., via the group
conferencing feature – work smarter and more secure.
•

Screen Sharing

We have developed encrypted screen-sharing as an extra valuable tool to
collaborate securely with partners and other 3rd parties.
•

Voice Messages

Send quick voice messages without calling. Saves time and the feature is
available both on web and app platforms.
•

Intuitive Web App

The Web App gives users a total overview of all communications and data.
Please see next page for the FortKnoxster Web App and native Android and
iOS app previews.
8|Page
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

FortKnoxster Web App

9|Page
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

FortKnoxster App for iOS

FortKnoxster App for Android

10 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Our Mission Statement
“FortKnoxster is the most secure and
privacy-oriented all-in-one peer-to-peer
encrypted communication platform.
FortKnoxster protects your online privacy
by encrypting all your communication
and data.“

11 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Why Use Encryption?
The word encryption comes from the Greek word “kryptos”, meaning
“hidden” or “secret”. Encryption is used to enhance security levels to the
highest possible. The use of encryption is nearly as old as the art of
communication itself. As early as 1900 BC, an Egyptian scribe used nonstandard hieroglyphs to hide the meaning of an inscription.
Encryption is a way to maximize the security of i.e. an email message, chat
message, call or file by “scrambling” the contents.
Encryption is basically a process/method of encoding messages or
information in such a way that only authorized parties can read it.
Encryption is a safe way for enterprises and military to communicate
privately and securely, without others (i.e. competitors) being able to follow
or spy on the communications.
Encryption is also the primary tool that protects the communications of
anyone from big companies and governments to small businesses and
lawyers to regular citizens. Encryption protects infrastructures of entire
countries – communications, power, transportation and healthcare systems,
and businesses.
As we eagerly moved into the era of smart, connected devices, encryption
(if used) protects our phone calls, text messages, emails, and cloud storage.
With the advent of the Internet of Things, security experts call for the
implementation of strong encryption in the IoT products, which, when left
unattended, could cause chaos to individual households and larger
infrastructures.
When you hear the word encryption, the first thing that might come to mind
is that it’s something only techies or geeks would understand, or use. In
reality, the idea of encryption isn't that complicated at all and our platform
has made it very easy to use encryption.
Encryption is the best method to safeguard your privacy.
Cryptographer and security and privacy specialist Bruce Schneier states:
“Encryption should be enabled for everything by default, not a feature you
only turn on when you’re doing something you consider worth protecting.”

12 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Why Use blockchain?
A blockchain is a decentralized and open distributed ledger, recording
financial transactions (or virtually anything of value) between two parties, on
a peer-to-peer network. This continuously growing list of records is linked and
secured with strong cryptography, making these transactions permanently
verifiable and therefore incorruptible.

“blockchain solves the problem of manipulation”
Quote: Vitalik Buterin, inventor of Ethereum

Since the blockchain is public verifiable, it provides such security and
transparency that makes it ideal for many types of security applications.
FortKnoxster take advantage of these features which the blockchain
technology provides, by moving its centralized trust of digital identities to a
decentralized one, specifically the Ethereum blockchain, using its smart
contracts.
Trust is of vital importance and is the most important elements in any crypto
infrastructure. The current model of trust for digital identities in FortKnoxster is
centralized. This centralized trust model is a common challenge today, as it
becomes a single point of failure.

“Centralizing identity creates a single point of failure and builds a
repository of high value data that can attract hackers, and
proper controls need to be in place to maintain integrity.”
Quote: IBM blockchain IDC report, "It Was Only a Matter of Time”.

The distributed trust model, utilizing blockchain, is a new way of managing
digital identities where the blockchain technology empowers users to
control their own digital identity and share and communicate between
trusted individuals with their consent. Therefore, no single entity can
compromise a user’s digital identity and there is no single point of failure
present.
Besides implementing a secure and decentralized trust model of
FortKnoxster’s encrypted digital identities (the public keys); FortKnoxster has
built a complete ecosystem using the FKX token and smart contracts on the
Ethereum blockchain to facilitate secure transactions of subscription
services and incentives to participants.
13 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Our Technology
The following is a technical explanation of FortKnoxster’s end-to-end
encryption and describe in detail the crypto designs and security using the
Ethereum blockchain with smart contracts and a decentralized trust of
digital identities. A more detailed description is to be found in the Appendix
section.
FortKnoxster is a secure web and native app communication and
collaboration platform, which enables users to exchange messages and files
(including mails, attachments, chats, group chats, calls, documents, images,
videos, voice messages, video messages, and files) securely using strong
end-to-end encryption.
At FortKnoxster, security and privacy have the highest priority. Therefore, we
have built the FortKnoxster encryption, privacy and secure architectures by
design. Unlike most other online businesses, it is our main goal to protect our
users’ privacy, which we are very proud of to have achieved.
The figure below illustrates how the end-to-end encryption happens
between two users, through the FortKnoxster servers on the TLS encrypted
connection between the browser clients and the server.

Appendix 1 describes in detail how the inbox and chat message exchange,
file storage and calling occur and what crypto operations are involved.
FortKnoxster has its own public key infrastructure (PKI), which extends to the
Ethereum blockchain. In the blockchain the user’s digital identity gets stored
in a registry though a computed Merkle-tree, using smart contracts and

14 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

cannot get compromised by a single entity, not even by the FortKnoxster
team.
When a user registers on FortKnoxster.com - four sets of RSA key-pairs are
generated, two sets of elliptic curve (EC) key-pairs and 6 Key Protector(s)
(one per private key) in the client’s browser.
These encryption and identity key-pairs are used for different services and
protocols. Unlike other known encryption protocols, each of FortKnoxster’s
services or protocols needs two sets of key-pairs, one for encryption and
decryption and one for signing and verification.
The key protector is used to encrypt/wrap each private key which is only
known to the user.
The user’s personal password is used to compute derived keys in the client,
the account password, and root keys.
Please note: The user’s personal password is only known to the user and it is
very important to understand that the user’s personal password and the root
key are never ever sent to the servers.
The account password is a cryptographic hash of the personal password
using the PBKDF2 algorithm with SHA-256 as the hashing algorithm, which
performs 50,000 rounds of hashing operations (key stretching) and takes the
username@domain as a salt. The outcome is a strong password, which is
sent to the server and stored as another cryptographic hash using the
BCRYPT key derivation function. This password is only used to authenticate
the user and cannot decrypt any of the users’ data.
The root key is computed the exact same way as the account password but
takes a randomly generated salt and 20,000 rounds of hashing operations,
and therefore computes a completely different derived key. The root key
forms a 32-byte AES key which is used to encrypt/wrap a Key Protector with
AES-KW.
At this point each RSA and EC private key are encrypted/wrapped with AESGCM with the 32-byte Key Protector, which is locked by the 32-byte root
key, each forming a key container. All the public keys and protected key
containers are sent to the server during the registration, along with the user
details, account password and digital identity.
The digital identity is constructed like this (in the client browser):

15 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

digital identity = User ID + Signature

Where the Signature is computed like this:
Signature = SIGN(User ID + Public Key Fingerprint, Private Identity Key)

A separate session is established to the FortKnoxster server, where a
blockchain client node runs. The node receives the digital identity from the
user and creates a new transaction on the blockchain containing the digital
identity to store it in the smart contract registry.

The above figure illustrates, a newly signed up user Alice, setting up its digital
identity. The figure also illustrates, the retrieval of Bob’s digital identity for
verification, before any encrypted communication link can be established.
Bob will also have done this verification of Alice’s digital identity
beforehand.

16 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

FortKnoxster enforces a decentralized trust of identities using Ethereum
blockchain smart contracts and IPFS as a decentralized P2P network storage
of the identity objects.
These identities consist of a self-signed object containing the user ID and the
user’s public identity key, which are inserted into a Merkle-tree, who’s root
hash is finally stored in a smart contract on the Ethereum blockchain.
When FortKnoxster’s users connect with each other, they cryptographically
sign each other as contacts, so they establish a trusted communication link
between them, which can finally be verified through the blockchain
guaranteeing, that any user’s public keys in fact come from the claimed
user and therefore prevent MITM attacks.
This is a common cryptographic problem, to trust that the public keys
belonging to a specific person. Most available solutions consist of a
centralized approach, such as Certificate Authorities, but FortKnoxster uses a
decentralized approach, using the Ethereum blockchain, IPFS and selfsigned contacts to solve this problem.

17 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

FKX Token Utility
The FortKnoxster utility token ($FKX) is used for purchasing various services
and for incentivizing users for different rewards achieved.
The FKX utility token has a clear and important usage in our application, as a
means of both incentivizing further development and securing our ability run
and market FortKnoxster worldwide. The FKX token serves the purpose of
being required in order to use FortKnoxster’s PRO features and obtain extra
encrypted cloud storage.
A fixed supply of 150 Mill. FKX was generated during the token distribution. A
ledger on the blockchain was created maintaining the FKX token, following
the ERC-20 standard and allowing a secure mechanism for transferring FKX
to other participants.
Signing up to FortKnoxster is free and 1 GB of free encrypted storage is
allocated.
Users on FortKnoxster who own FKX tokens, can upgrade their account
purchasing a PRO subscription to obtain:
•

Extra Encrypted Storage

•

Screen Sharing

•

Group Conference

•

Manage Unlimited Group Chats

•

Manage Unlimited Folder Shares

FortKnoxster plans to introduce other PRO subscription features in the future.
The following screenshot illustrates PRO upgrade checkout step in the
FortKnoxster Web App, where the PRO plan can be customized to fit the
storage needs. Further it illustrates a clear overview of the FREE features
versus the PRO features.

18 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

FortKnoxster currently supports payment with the following wallets:
•

Leger Hardware Wallet

•

MetaMask Software Wallet

•

Mobile Wallets with ERC-20 token support

•

Other External Wallets with ERC-20 token support

Check out our full guide on How to upgrade your FortKnoxster account to
PRO.
The below screenshot illustrates the PRO checkout step with the 1-year PRO
subscription for 1,000 FKX including 5 GB FREE storage. Additional storage
has a cost of 100 FKX per GB in the yearly subscription.
All prices are subject to change at any time without further notice. The
current prices are available when accessing your FortKnoxster account from
a desktop browser here https://web.fortknoxster.com/. Prices illustrated in
this white paper may only be valid the moment of writing.
19 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

To further contribute to the FKX ecosystem, incentive earning-plans will be
launched - such as:
•

Referral
Users get rewarded with FKX tokens, by referring friends, family and
business contacts to the FortKnoxster platform through invitation.

•

Bug Bounty
Users can also get rewarded with FKX tokens by submitting valid
security reports of the bug with PoC (Proof of Concept).

20 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Token Generation Event

The Token Generation Event ended 18 Mar 2018 12:00 CET.

21 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

FortKnoxster Roadmap

22 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Our Core Team

Mickey Joe Nathan Johnnysson

Rasmus Birger Christiansen

CEO & Co-Founder

Partner & Co-Founder

A strong analytical mindset has served
Mickey well in his 15+ years as a full-stack
software developer. His major passions
are computer engineering, crypto and
Blockchain.

Along with a degree in Engineering,
Rasmus has 20+ years’ experience
within telecommunications. He’s a
privacy-advocate by heart, a strong
leader and a cyber-security
professional.

René Krainert

Billy Krepper

CFO

CTO

René has been an accountant and
financial controller for almost 20 years.
He has a strong background within
finance and accounting, both as a
hands-on controller, strategic planner
and Excel guru.

Coming from a scientific family, Billy’s
satisfaction comes by solving
complex problems. Billy has more
than 15 years of professional
experience and he is always staying
hungry for new challenges.
23 | P a g e

© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Niels Christian Sørensen

Christian Zwergius

Head of Systems Infrastructure

Senior Developer

Niels Christian has more than 25 years of
experience in information technology,
network, embedded platforms and SIP
telephony making him the guy when it
comes to server infrastructure.

Born and raised in Denmark, Christian
is a UI engineer with an eye for detail.
Always on the lookout for the next hot
thing in the ever-evolving tech world.

Emin Roblack

Julià Carboneras Girgas

Head of Design

Marketing Specialist

Julià is a marketing specialist. He is
With a penchant for design, graphics
obsessed
with measuring, automating
and animations, he has an imitable
and optimising results. His growth
talent for converting simple ideas into
hacking
secret is not about magic but
complex graphics.
hard work, best practices, scientific
approach and rigour.

24 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Advisor

David Orban

Henok Tekle

Blockchain Expert

Blockchain Expert

David is an entrepreneur, author,
blogger, keynote speaker, and thought
leader of the global technology
landscape. His entrepreneurial
accomplishments span several
companies founded and grown over
more than twenty years.

Hen is a prominent cryptocurrency
angel investor, content creator,
thought leader, and advisor to token
projects. Hen is a frequent attendee
and speaker at Blockchain gatherings
and has also founded and managed
several cryptocurrency communities.

Stig Abildsø

Eddy De Heij

Entrepreneur & Investor

Entrepreneur & Investor

Stig has built several Danish companies
from scratch to successful exits within
the IT sector. The ultimate entrepreneur.

Eddy is an expert in digital media,
marketing, big-data and branding.
Eddy, who is Dutch, also has vast
entrepreneurial experience and is an
investor, advisor, speaker, author and
blockchain enthusiast.
25 | P a g e

© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Michael Vivet
Senior IT Consultant
Michael is assisting with strategical and
tactical counselling, as well as
backend and service development.

26 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Final Words
FortKnoxster is founded by Danish entrepreneurs and cyber-security experts,
with an extensive experience in the field of online security and cyberdefence. The founders have already established proof of concept.
The FortKnoxster platform has huge, scalable worldwide potential. It is the
world’s first end-to-end encryption platform, offering turnkey encryption with
a large suite of features including Blockchain implementation.
The combination of our team, business model, the extremely scalable
market potential and the rising cyber-security demand from both individuals
and enterprises, will make FortKnoxster a market-leading player within the
cyber-security field.
By utilizing our advanced cryptographic solutions combined with the power
of the blockchain’s decentralized structure, FortKnoxster will help make the
world a safer place – and we will dominate the global encryption market by
being the “go-to” encryption solution anywhere – and for everybody.

27 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Appendix 1: Technology
Overview
Key Terms
Below is the list of key terms used throughout the technology explanations.
All key materials are generated using a CSPRNG (Cryptographically Secure
Pseudo-Random Number Generator) seeded with high-quality entropy as
truly random values using the operating system's entropy source.
•

Account Password – Password based derived key used for
authentication using the PBKDF2 algorithm with SHA-256 as the
hashing algorithm and seeded with salt.

•

Root Key – Password based derived key using the PBKDF2 algorithm
with SHA-256 as the hashing algorithm and seeded with a random
salt. The derived key is used for encrypting and decrypting a Key
Protector using AES 256-bit in KW mode.

•

User ID – A self-generated unique identifier to identify a user in the
FortKnoxster system and on the blockchain.

•

Public Key Fingerprint – A unique cryptographic hash of the user’s
public keys used to form the digital identity on the blockchain.

•

Digital Identity – A key/value record stored on the blockchain
containing the User ID and a digital signature of the User ID and the
Public Key Fingerprint.

•

Private Encryption Key – Private key used for decryption using RSAOAEP 2048-bit algorithm scheme with SHA-256 as the hashing
algorithm.

•

Private Identity Key – Private key used for digitally signing an
encrypted message, using RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 2048-bit algorithm
scheme with SHA-256 as the hashing algorithm.

•

Public Encryption Key – Public key used for AES key encryption using
RSA-OAEP 2048-bit algorithm scheme with SHA-256 as the hashing
algorithm.
28 | P a g e

© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

•

Public Identity Key – Public key used for message signature verification
using RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 2048-bit algorithm scheme with SHA-256 as
the hashing algorithm.

•

Key Protector – Random generated 32-byte key used for
encrypting/wrapping and decryption/unwrapping a private key using
AES 256-bit encryption in GCM mode.

•

Key Container – A flexible crypto box container structure to hold an
encrypted/wrapped private key with its Key Protector(s).

•

Message Key – Random generated 32-byte one-time key used for
message and file encryption and decryption using AES 256-bit
encryption in CBC mode or GCM mode.

•

Group Key – Random generated 32-byte session key used for
encryption and decryption of group message using AES 256-bit
encryption in GCM mode.

Key Pairs
The RSA key-pairs used for encryption and decryption, each consists of a
Public Encryption Key and a Private Encryption Key and uses the RSA-OAEP
2048-bit algorithm scheme with SHA-256 as the hashing algorithm.
The RSA key-pairs used for signing and verification, each consist of a Public
Identity Key and a Private Identity Key and uses the RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5
2048-bit algorithm scheme with SHA-256 as the hashing algorithm.
The EC key pair used for deriving a shared secret key in a key agreement
consists of a public and a private key and uses the ECDH P521-bit algorithm.
The EC key pair used for signing and verification consists of a Public Identity
Key and a Private Identity Key and uses the ECDSA P521-bit algorithm.

Private Keys Protection
When a user registers on FortKnoxster.com – 4 sets of RSA key-pairs are
generated, 3 sets of elliptic curve (EC) key-pairs and 7 Key Protector(s) (one
per private key) in the client’s browser.

29 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

These encryption and identity key-pairs are used for different services and
protocols, such as inbox, chat, calling, file storage & account settings. Unlike
other known encryption protocols, each of FortKnoxster’s services or
protocols needs two sets of key-pairs, one for encryption and decryption
and one for signing and verification.
The key protector is used to encrypt/wrap each private key which is only
known to the user.
The user’s personal password is used to compute derived keys in the client,
the account password, and the root keys.
Please note: The user’s personal password is only known to the user and it is
very important to understand that the user’s personal password and the root
key are never ever sent to the servers.
The account password is a cryptographic hash of the personal password
using the PBKDF2 algorithm with SHA-256 as the hashing algorithm, which
performs 20,000 rounds of hashing operations (key stretching) and takes the
username@fortknoxster.com as a salt. The outcome is a strong password,
which is sent to the server and stored as another cryptographic hash using
the BCRYPT key derivation function. This password is only used to
authenticate the user and cannot decrypt any of the users’ data.
The root key is computed the exact same way as the account password but
takes a 32-byte randomly generated salt and 50,000 rounds of hashing, and
therefore is a completely different password. The root key forms a 32-byte
AES key which is used to encrypt/wrap a Key Protector with AES-KW.
At this point each RSA and EC private key are encrypted/wrapped with AESGCM with the 32-byte key protector, which is locked by the 32-byte root
key, each forming a key container. All the public keys and protected key
containers are sent to the server during the registration, along with the user
details and account password.
When a user changes password, the account password is changed the
same way as above and all the key protectors are re-encrypted with the
new root key computed the same crypto operations above and replaced
in the key containers.
When a user enables the account recovery feature, a new key protector is
added to each key container, using the recovery key as the root key in the
above crypto operations.

30 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Contacts & Key Exchange
A common problem in encryption systems, is the secure key exchange of
public keys between users, making sure that the obtained key indeed
belongs to the intended recipient.
FortKnoxster protects against such potential Man-In-The-Middle (MITM)
attacks, by leveraging on the blockchain technology in conjunction with a
self-signed contact list.
A user can invite other users into the platform or connect with any existing
users on the platform.
Each user keeps a contact list where each contact record is digitally signed
with the user’s Private Identity Key and contains all the contact details such
as name, user id and the public keys. The contact gets signed during a
contact request/accept process. This process involves retrieving the
contact’s digital identity from the blockchain and verify it in the client by
computing the same Public Key Fingerprint from the contacts public keys
and then verify the Signature with the contact’s Public Identity Key.
Once the contact is verified, it is then signed and added to the user’s own
contact list. From then on, the user can trust this contact and will verify the
contact before using its public keys to exchange messages, files or calls.
Should the contact verification fail, the message exchange with that
contact is not carried out and the user is alerted with a warning.

Message Exchange
When a user sends an inbox or chat message to another user, the following
happens in the sending user’s client:
1. If there were any attachments, they have already each been
encrypted with its own generated Message Key and a Mac of the
encrypted file has been taken using the HMAC algorithm with SHA-256
and the file’s Message Key. And at this point, the encrypted
attachments have already been uploaded the servers and a unique
id has been assigned to each attachment.
2. A new Message Key for the message object is then generated.

31 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

3. The plain message with any attachments meta-data, attachments
Message Key's, attachments HMAC signatures and attachments IDs
are encrypted with the message's Message Key.
4. The ciphertext (encrypted message) is signed using the sending user’s
Private Identity Key.
a. Before signing the ciphertext, the Private Identity Key is first
decrypted with the user’s Key Protector which was decrypted in
the browser client with the root key and stored in the browser’s
session storage when the user logged in.
5. The Message Key used to encrypt the message is then encrypted
using the receiving user’s Public Encryption Key.
a. If a message has multiple recipients, this process in 5) is
repeated with each recipient’s Public Encryption Key.
6. The encrypted message, the message signature, and the encrypted
recipient keys are then sent to the servers where they are stored.
7. Before storing the message, the server application verifies each
message in case of message tampering. This is done using the sending
user’s Public Identity Key.
When a user receives a new inbox or chat message, the following happens
in the receiving user’s browser client:
1. The signature of the encrypted message is verified with the sending
user’s Public Identity Key.
2. The encrypted Message Key is then decrypted with the user’s Private
Encryption Key.
a. Before decrypting the ciphertext, the Private Encryption Key is
first decrypted with the user’s Key Protector which was
decrypted in the browser client with the root key and stored in
the browser’s session storage when the user logged in.
3. The retrieved Message Key is then used to decrypt the encrypted
message.
4. If there were any attachments the receiving user can download each
encrypted attachment which will be verified for integrity with HMAC32 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

SHA256 using the Message Key and then decrypted using the same
Message Key.
Group chat messaging is designed to handle a lot of members and a large
amount of group chat messages. This is achieved with a server-side fan-out,
which means a user sends a single message to the server and the server
sends a copy of the message to each group member. This design transmits
as little data as possible.
When a group chat is created the following happens:
1. The creating user generates a Group Key.
2. The Group Key is then encrypted with each member’s Public
Encryption Key.
For all subsequent messages to the group:
1. The sender retrieves the Group Key by decrypting it with the Private
Encryption Key.
2. The sender encrypts the plain message with the Group Key using
GCM mode, which allows for message authentication during
encryption and decryption.
3. The sender signs the encrypted message with his/her Private Identity
Key.
4. The sender transmits the encrypted message and the signature to the
server, which does server-side fan-out to all the group members.
The group chat messaging is also the foundation for the group call signalling
protocol which happens over the same XMPP group chat channel.

Cloud Storage & File Sharing
Larger files and attachments are also end-to-end encrypted.
File attachments (documents, images, videos etc.) refer to inbox
attachments and chat file transfers and are encrypted the exact same way,
with a Message Key per file using CBC mode. A MAC signature is then
computed using the HMAC algorithm with SHA-256 and the file’s own
Message Key as the key to the HMAC function.

33 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Cloud Storage files are encrypted the same way, however, to be able to
handle large file uploads, the files are chunked into smaller files and
encrypted with a Message Key using GCM mode.
An additional two sets of RSA key-pairs were generated specifically for
Cloud Storage use and file and folder sharing.
The folder tree structure is kept in separate JSON folder structures which
contain ID pointers and AES keys to its children folders and files. Those JSON
structures are encrypted with a Message Key using GCM mode and are
signed with the user's Private Identity Key. The random AES key along with a
unique ID is kept in the parent JSON folder structure which is also encrypted
and signed.
When a user shares a folder with other users, the Message Key for the JSON
structure is encrypted with each user's Public Encryption Key and the
encrypted JSON structure is then signed with the sharing user's Private
Identity Key.
The sharing user is the owner of the shared folder and can define read and
write permission for each member of the folder.

Calling & Conferencing
Audio/video one-to-one calls, group calls and screen sharing are also endto-end encrypted and use the WebRTC technology for real-time audio and
video communication.
WebRTC uses Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (DTLS-SRTP) for establishing
and encrypting media streams.
Before a peer-to-peer call is established between two or more users, some
signalling is done to exchange certain information and set up the call.
This signalling is done over the existing Chat/XMPP channel and is also endto-end encrypted using the same encryption scheme for message
exchange with AES/RSA as described previously above.

Native Android & iOS Apps
The Android and iOS apps contain the same inbox, chat, group chat and
calling features as the web client and integrates closely with the system and
will receive push notifications on various events such as new inbox and chat
messages and incoming calls.
34 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

The end-to-end encryption is designed and developed using the same
strong encryption and algorithms as in the browser clients. For the iOS and
Android apps, the end-to-end encryption layer has been developed as a
single cross-platform library written in C++ using the latest OpenSSL
distribution, and which is used in both apps.

Web Crypto API
The web browsers implement the latest browser capabilities and use the
Web Cryptography API (Web Crypto API), which is a web standard defined
at the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) which allows for cryptographic
operations in Javascript web client applications.
“The Web Cryptography API defines a low-level interface to interacting
with cryptographic key material that is managed or exposed by user
agents. The API itself is agnostic of the underlying implementation of key
storage but provides a common set of interfaces that allow rich web
applications to perform operations such as signature generation and
verification, hashing and verification, encryption and decryption, without
requiring access to the raw keying material.”
Source: (W3C) Web Cryptography API http://www.w3.org/TR/WebCryptoAPI

Using Web Crypto API makes the crypto design and its implementation
highly stable and efficient when performing various crypto operations, as it
leverages on the browser’s own crypto stack implementation and which
makes robust cryptographic algorithms available, compared to other pure
Javascript crypto implementations.
Web Crypto API does not replace TLS & HTTPS, in fact the Web Crypto API
requires a HTTPS secure context in order to work.
TLS is a protocol to establish a secure and trusted client-to-server
communication tunnel as a transport layer using strong encryption to serve
content over HTTPS.
Web Crypto API is an interface made available for application developers
to access various crypto operations enabling web application
developments, with use cases such as encrypted messaging, encrypted
cloud storage, document signing & sharing, data integrity protection
among other use cases.
FortKnoxster uses the Web Crypto API in its advanced client end-to-end
decryption design in combination with a strictly configured TLS and HTTPS.
35 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Our code is served over HTTPS only from the https://web.fortknoxster.com
origin and we DO NOT serve any external resources or cross-domain scripts.

Web Security
Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attacks are probably the most widely spread type
of attacks on web applications and happen when malicious scripts are
injected into websites to target end users.
The goal of an XSS attack is to make some browser script execute in the
victim’s browser on infected sites and to steal sensitive information such as a
session cookie from an authenticated user and then send it back to the
attacker’s server. The attacker can then gain access to the victim’s account
on that specific website by using this session cookie. Such an attack can be
done without the victim’s knowledge.
This kind of attack has been performed on well-known services such as
WhatsApp, where the attacker was able to completely hi-jack some victim’s
WhatsApp account and being able to control that victim’s account.
Websites and web applications are vulnerable to XSS attacks typically when
user inputs are not filtered correctly.
FortKnoxster implements several security measures to make sure our users
are protected against any kind of XSS attacks, by making sure user inputs
such as an inbox or chat message are escaped and sanitized before
displaying it, in the receiver’s browser. Furthermore, our web application and
server configurations have been optimized to set the HTTPOnly cookie flag,
X-XSS-Protection, and Content-Security-Policy response headers.
Our research in Content Security Policy (CSP) has resulted in a very strict CSP
configuration, by not allowing any kind of external sources to be loaded
inside the FortKnoxster environment.
CSP is supported in all modern browsers and protects against XSS by
whitelisting allowed sources of script, style, media and other resources when
you visit a website.
To have this kind of protection, the CSP configurations need to be done in
the web server configurations and is a special response header (ContentSecurity-Policy) sent from the server back to the browser, when a page is
requested.

36 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

We have taken these extra security measures to make sure our CSP
configurations are as strict as possible by whitelisting only internal resources,
and thereby blacklisting any kind of external loading of resources in the
client’s browser when visiting our website and using our services, and
therefore enforce our user’s privacy.
Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF/XSRF) is a special kind of attack, where the
attacker can trick the victim in to perform unwanted actions, such as
authorizing a bank transfer.
FortKnoxster prevents CSRF vulnerabilities by including a unique session token
on each HTTP request and a special XSRF cookie.
Furthermore, the FortKnoxster session cookie is encrypted with AES-CBC 256bit and a mac using the HMAC function, taking a server key as input.
Phishing is a type of social engineering attack. The attacker masquerades as
the trusted site, tricking the victim to perform unwanted actions, such as
stealing login credentials, credit card details and other sensitive data.
FortKnoxster implements several security measures to also prevent these
kinds of attacks.

Account Security
To protect users from any kind of account attacks, FortKnoxster enforces
various security measures and offer the following account security features:
•

Two-Factor Authentication with TOTP and FIDO U2F.

•

Restrict account access by IP and country.

•

Security audit log.

•

Web Application Firewall (WAF) filtering web requests.

•

Automated account blocking when Brute Force attacks or other
abuses are detected.

Transport Layer Security
All communication between the clients (web browsers, Android app, iOS
app) and the servers are layered with an extra separate strict encryption
channel. Only TLS 1.2 is supported and is configured with the strongest
37 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

cipher suites available, such as ECDH with elliptic curve 25519 and RSA 3072bits, including a 4096-bit Diffie-Hellman parameter for DHE cipher suites.
The strong TLS configurations enable HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS),
OCSP Stapling, Forward Secrecy and protect against all known attacks such
as Beast, Heartbleed, Poodle and many more.

Algorithm Overview
Below is an overview of the encryption algorithms and crypto operations
used in the FortKnoxster end-to-end encryption crypto design.
Algorithm

Encrypt

Decrypt

RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5
RSA-OAEP

✓

Sign

Verify

✓

✓

✓

✓

Derive

Digest

ECDH

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

AES-CBC

✓

✓

AES-GCM

✓

✓

AES-KW

✓

✓

PBKDF2

✓

BCRYPT

✓

SHA-256

Unwrap

✓

ECDSA

HMAC

Wrap

✓

38 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Appendix 2: The GDPR
Regulation
Below is a short description of the GDPR regulation. FortKnoxster is a good
and relevant tool to comply with the strict GDPR law and easy to implement
in any organisation regardless of size and industry.
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) is
a regulation by which the European Parliament, the Council of the
European Union and the European Commission intend to strengthen and
unify data protection for all individuals within the European Union (EU).
Businesses urgently need to bring their operations into compliance with the
new data protection regime. Here are the most important takeaways from
the GDPR.

When
The law took effect from May 25, 2018, after which enforcement will begin
against the non-compliant entities. Until then, existing national data
protection laws apply, which include national security laws, or employment
laws and free speech.

Who
The new European Data Protection Regulation applies to any business
irrespective of its business activity or sector of economy, if:
a business is established in the EU, or subject to EU laws.
a business is established outside the EU, but a) offers services or goods to EU
residents; b) monitors the EU residents’ behaviour.
For example, the “Runkeeper app” tracking its European users is liable, even
though it is a North American company without an office in the EU.
The European Data Protection Regulation introduces a significant expansion
of the liable businesses and now applies to non-European entities dealing
with private data of the European residents.
39 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

This also means tech giants like Google, Facebook, Yahoo and Microsoft will
have to comply. Otherwise, the implications include hefty fines.

Fines
Breaching of the European Data Protection Regulation results in fines. The
maximum fine for a single breach is either €20 million, or 4% of annual global
turnover, whichever is greater. The amount is set intentionally high as to
attract the attention of the C-suite to the problem of data protection and
compliance with the new regulation.

Encryption is the solution
The GDPR regulation provides specific suggestions for what kinds of security
actions might be considered “appropriate to the risk,” including:
Encryption of personal data.
The ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability, and
resilience of systems and services processing personal data.
The ability to restore the availability and access to data in a timely manner
in the event of a physical or technical incident.
A process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of
technical and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the
processing.
While the European Data Protection Regulation brings good news to the
end users mostly, it’s not all bad news, more work and bigger spending for
the businesses. There is one particularly valuable piece in the regulation that
stipulates that companies should meet users’ “reasonable expectations of
data privacy.” The regulation then suggests that encryption, anonymity, and
authorization tokens meet those expectations. If your company encrypts
corporate data and user data at rest and in transit, also when dealing with
third-party contractors, and keeps the keys on the company premises, safe
and encrypted, too, you will effectively prove that you meet the
“reasonable expectations of privacy” of an individual.

40 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Appendix 3: Terms of Service
Terms of Service
Effective: August 1, 2017
These Terms of Service (“Terms”) cover your use and access to the Service
named “FortKnoxster”, (“Service”) provided by FortKnoxster Ltd. By using our
Services, you’re agreeing to be bound by these Terms, and to also review
our Privacy policies. If you’re using our Services for an organization or other
legal entity, you’re agreeing to these Terms on behalf of that organization.
FortKnoxster Ltd. reserves the right to change this agreement at any time.
The FortKnoxster Service
The FortKnoxster Service provides a system that allows a user to access our
secure communication platform named FortKnoxster. In order to receive the
Service, you will need to create an account consisting of a username,
phone number and password.
Access
In order to access your account, you must first log in using your FortKnoxster
username and password, and then go through the verification process. After
this, you have access to use the Service. The use of the Service requires you
to obtain access to the Internet. You can access from a computer or a
mobile device.
Account Security
By completing the registration for this Service, you agree to be bound by
these Terms and Conditions and FortKnoxster’s Privacy Policy, you warrant
that you are at least eighteen 18 years old or that you have obtained
consent to open and maintain an account from your parents. You agree to
maintain the security of your password and identification, and you will be
fully responsible for all usage of the FortKnoxster Service. You shall
immediately notify FortKnoxster Ltd of any unauthorized use of your
password or account, of any loss or theft of your password or of any other
breach of security.

41 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Permitted Use
You may access and use the Service in accordance with these Terms and
Conditions and subject to any operating rules/contract or posted policies
that appear on the website. Any use of the Service is at your sole risk and
responsibility.
No Illegal Use
You represent and warrant, as a condition of use of the Service, that you will
not use the Service for any purpose that is illegal, unlawful or prohibited. You
shall not subject the FortKnoxster system to any spam, denial of Service
attacks, viruses or any action, activity or code that would interfere with the
ordinary operation of the system.
Indemnity
You agree to defend, indemnify and hold FortKnoxster Ltd., its subsidiaries
and affiliates and directors, officers, agents, contractors, shareholders,
partners and employees, harmless from and against any action, claim,
demand or liability, arising out of or relating to your violation of any of the
Terms and Conditions of this agreement, the rights of any third party or your
use or connection to this Service. The Service is provided “as is” and you
agree to not hold FortKnoxster Ltd. responsible for any damages that arise as
a result of the loss of use, data, information or profits connected to the
performance of the Service. Furthermore, you will not hold FortKnoxster Ltd.
liable, if any material is unintentionally released as the result of a security
failure, vulnerability or force majeure.
Password
As we have no access to your account or data, we do not keep records of
your password. If you lose your password, we cannot help you other than
offering you a new account.
Paid Accounts
Billing. We will automatically charge you from the date you activate a user
account and on each periodic renewal until cancellation. You’re
responsible for all applicable taxes, and we will charge tax and VAT when
required to do so.
No Refunds. You may cancel your FortKnoxster Upgrade Account at any
time, but you won’t be issued a refund.
42 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Downgrades. Your Upgrade Account will remain in effect until it is cancelled
or terminated under these Terms. If you do not pay for your Upgrade
Account on time, we reserve the right to suspend it or reduce your account
to a free account.
Changes. We may change the fees in effect but will give you advance
notice of these changes via a message to the email address associated
with your account.
Intellectual Property
FortKnoxster Ltd. owns all rights, titles, and interest in and to all copyright,
trademarks, trade secrets, patents or any other intellectual property of any
kind or any proprietary rights in and to the Service and these rights titles and
interests are protected to the fullest extent under Gibraltar and International
laws. Without the prior written consent of FortKnoxster Ltd., you shall not use
or permit any third party to use any trademarks or trade names and no
content on this Service may be copied, reproduced or duplicated in any
form or by any means whatsoever.
Entire Agreement
These Terms and Conditions set forth the entire agreement with respect to
the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior or contemporaneous
communications and proposals, whether, electronic, oral or written,
between you and FortKnoxster Ltd.
Waiver
The failure of FortKnoxster Ltd. to exercise or enforce any right or provision of
these Terms and Conditions shall not constitute a waiver of such right or
provision.
Applicable Law
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of
Gibraltar. All actions commenced pursuant hereto shall be brought in a
court of Gibraltar.

43 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Changes
If FortKnoxster Ltd. is involved in a future merger, acquisition, re-organization
or sale of our assets, your information may be transferred as part of this. We
will notify you (for example, via a message to the email address associated
with your account) of any such deal and outline in detail.
Effect
This agreement comes into effect on the date of your completed
registration with FortKnoxster Ltd., or date of first payment and FortKnoxster
Ltd. may terminate this Service at any time. Use of the Service is your
consent to the Terms of this agreement.
Customer support
We will respond to support requests via email within one business day. If you
have questions, ideas or concerns about our Services, please contact us at
info@FortKnoxster.com.

44 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Appendix 4: Privacy Policy
Effective: August 1, 2017
Privacy Is Our Business
FortKnoxster Ltd. values, respects and endorse the privacy and anonymity of
all our users and is strongly committed to protecting the confidential security
and integrity of any information in accordance with this Privacy Policy.
This Privacy Policy explains FortKnoxster Ltd.’s handling of your information.
Protecting Your Information
Generally. The security of your information is imperative to us, in fact this is
the core of our or business model, to protect the privacy of our users and
their data. Within the technical and legal boundaries, we will keep
innovating and pushing the boundaries to maintain the best private and
secure communication platform.
Technically. We use physical, electronic and sophisticated security methods
to prevent unauthorized access, maintain data privacy and to ensure
correct protection of information. We use robust encryption technologies
including AES 256, RSA 2048, Key Authentication algorithms, Secure Sockets
Layer (SSL) etc. Our entire user’s data is stored in encrypted form and not
even the FortKnoxster Ltd. staff has any access to it whatsoever. In addition,
user accounts are protected by multifactor authentication (optional).
Our servers are hosted in a highly secure data centre. Furthermore, we use
Secure Sockets Layers (SSL) certificates with extended validation to insure
the highest degree of authentication available. Again, even if data were
compromised, it would be of no use as all data is highly encrypted. We also
refer to the Non-Disclosure section below.

45 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

Data Collection
FortKnoxster Ltd. collects and uses anonymous user information for the
following limited purposes:
1. Sent and Received Messages: We do not have access to any message
content as it is highly encrypted. We do have access to the following
records: Number of messages sent, storage space used, total number of
messages, last login time and country code login.
2. Phone numbers: All phone numbers provided to us during the account
creating procedure, are confidential information and your phone number
will never be sold, shared, given, leased or disclosed to any third parties.
Due to extra security matters, your phone number is required to send you
the initial activation code in the account creating process.
3. Emails: Providing your email is optional but required for certain services. All
emails provided to us during the account recovery and notification settings
procedures, are confidential information and your email will never be sold,
shared, given, leased or disclosed to any third parties. Due to extra security
matters, your email is required to send you the account recovery link in the
account recovery process. Your email address is also required for receiving
email notifications about new FortKnoxster messages.
Managing Your Data
Your data belongs to you and you can delete it at any time. Your account
information can be changed anytime by logging into your account and
change or delete information. If you wish to delete your account, we will
erase all your remaining encrypted account data from our servers. Any free
accounts that are inactive for a period of more than 12 months may be
automatically deleted.
Data Storage
All data is at any given time stored in encrypted format. Temporary backups
are also fully encrypted. We have no way of access your encrypted data,
and hence cannot recover your password, should you lose it.
Non-Disclosure
FortKnoxster Ltd. has a zero-disclosure policy. We will not respond to any
requests from authorities regarding information about users, logs, data or
similar. Any authority must direct a request to the relevant authorities, which
may then possibly contact us, following the protocol that the relevant
46 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

legislation stipulates. We will not comply with demands from any authorities
to a higher extent than the law demands.
Payments
This applies only to users who are using our “upgrade” Services. Third parties
process all electronic payment transactions and FortKnoxster Ltd. does not
retain any customer payment information. For administration purposes, we
do need to store data on which account was paid for by a particular
transaction.
Customer support
We will respond to support requests via email within 2 business days. If you
have questions, ideas or comments about our Services, please contact us at
info@FortKnoxster.com.

47 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

FORTKNOXSTER WHITEPAPER

ENCRYPTION-AS-A-SERVICE

THANKS FOR YOUR INTEREST
For more information:
www.fortknoxster.com
or e-mail:
hello@fortknoxster.com

© 2019. All rights reserved.

48 | P a g e
© FORTKNOXSTER

