The Freeliquid Protocol
White Paper

https://freeliquid.io/
Version 1.1: October 2020

Abstract
Freeliquid Protocol is an open-source platform built on the Ethereum
blockchain. It serves as a decentralized finance protocol that offers borrowing
and savings programs to crypto asset holders. One of the innovative features of
Freeliquid is the ability to receive USD stablecoins for providing liquidity pools
(e.g., from Uniswap) as collateral. Pools that are locked on Freeliquid remain
fully functional and continue to earn commission fees on their native platforms.
Borrowed funds can be used for any purposes, such as creating more liquidity
pools, thereby significantly increasing user profits. The USDFL token is
Freeliquid’s native stablecoin, which is soft-pegged to the US dollar. FL serves
as the governance token used in Freeliquid Voting. Both FL and USDFL tokens
operate on the ERC-20 standard. The Fair Launch model implies a distribution
of the initial FL tokens through reward programs. Freeliquid users play a
defining part in the development of the Protocol through community work and
proposal voting.

1

Table of Contents
1. Introduction

3

2. The Freeliquid Protocol

4

2.1 General information

4

2.2 Freeliquid Borrow

5

The USDFL stablecoin

5

Freeliquid Vaults

5

Working example

6

2.3 Freeliquid Save

7

2.4 Freeliquid Reserve

7

2.5 Oracles

8

3. Freeliquid Governance

9

3.1 FL governance token

9

3.2 Freeliquid Voting

9

3.3 FL token issuance

10

FL issuance charts

11

4. Emergency Shutdown

14

2

1. Introduction
One of the most popular trends of the cryptocurrency industry in the year
2020 have been DeFi projects – solutions and protocols for decentralized
finance. Among the many benefits that DeFi offers, two services stand out –
using liquidity pools to facilitate coin exchange between users and offering
loans with crypto assets as serving as security. Until now, these services lacked
a connection, as existing lending platforms do not accept liquidity pools as
collaterals. Freeliquid’s developer team has decided to change this.
The Freeliquid Protocol enables users to receive USD stablecoins by
locking liquidity pools as collaterals. The main advantage of this solution is that
investors can now get extra funding, while keeping the passive income from the
liquidity provider fees. The newly-obtained stablecoins can be used to increase
the size of the existing liquidity pool or create another one. The process can be
repeated several times, effectively leveraging the initial investment with no risks.
Alternatively, the funds can be used for any other purpose, such as trading or
yield farming. In any case, Freeliquid users can therefore turn their liquidity
pools into a source of extra funding, potentially multiplying their profits.
The Freeliquid developer team firmly believes in the principles of
decentralized peer-to-peer networks. The Freeliquid Protocol will be governed
by its community through the FL governance token for voting (see Chapter 3).
To fairly distribute the voting power inside the community, the initially
generated FL tokens will not be held by the developers or offered through an
initial coin offering (ICO). Instead, the FL tokens will be distributed only as
rewards for actively using the Freeliquid platform or for providing liquidity to
the native tokens of Freeliquid.
This white paper presents a thorough overview of the Freeliquid project.
Readers who are interested in the technological underpinnings are
welcome to go through the code of the Freeliquid smart contracts.

3

2. The Freeliquid Protocol
2.1 General information
The Freeliquid Protocol is a fork of the MakerDAO platform. The main
operating principles of Freeliquid are completely identical to MakerDAO smart
contracts (see Maker documentation). The decision to use the proven
MakerDAO framework has been made to ensure security, transparency, and
efficiency of the Freeliquid Protocol. The chosen framework also contains a welldesigned governance system, which relies on community-driven voting using a
governance token.
The Freeliquid Protocol operates on the Ethereum blockchain. The
Protocol’s entire codebase is available as open source on Github. The web
platform is currently hosted at https://freeliquid.io/ and can be accessed by
connecting a crypto wallet, such as Metamask or Ledger Nano.
The Freeliquid Protocol has been developed by a group of enthusiasts,
who continue to support and further develop the project. The decision-making,
however, is mainly done by the decentralized community of Freeliquid users.
The changes to the Protocol are proposed and voted on by the community
using the FL governance token (see Chapter 3.1), while the developer team
remains responsible with implementing decisions.

4

2.2 Freeliquid Borrow
Freeliquid Borrow enables its users to lock crypto assets in the form of
liquidity pools as collateral to borrow USDFL stablecoins. We first give an
overview of the USDFL stablecoin and then describe how the borrowing process
works.

The USDFL stablecoin
USD Freeliquid (USDFL) is an ERC-20 stablecoin, which is soft-pegged to
the US dollar. Its value is backed by user-provided collateral.
The USDFL token serves as the main currency of Freeliquid Protocol and
has all proper functions of sound money, namely:
- a unit of account;
- a medium of exchange;
- a store of value with a stable market price;
- a standard of deferred payment.
As any other ERC-20 token, USDFL is easy to hold and transfer by using
cryptocurrency wallets. USDFL can also be traded on decentralized exchanges,
where users will be providing the respective liquidity pairs.

Freeliquid Vaults
Freeliquid Vaults are smart contracts that generate USDFL after users lock
collaterals in Freeliquid Borrow and specify their preferred loan size. Initially,
only pools consisting of stablecoin pairs will be accepted as possible collateral.
Additional collateral types can be added later through community voting.
Users can borrow USDFL in an amount of up to 90% of the collateralized
asset value. The borrowed USDFL tokens constitute the outstanding Vault debt
which is charged with an interest rate (‘Stability Fee’), displayed in annual terms.
Initially, to support the early growth of the Freeliquid Borrow, the Stability Fees
for each collateral type are set to zero. The maximum borrow amount
percentage and Stability Fees may be changed later by the community to ensure
the financial stability of Freeliquid. Note that these parameters are applied to
each liquidity pair independently. Collected Stability Fees are stored in the
Freeliquid Reserve (see Chapter 2.4).
The loans do not require an approval from a third party and are not
restricted by any repayment date. Borrowing is processed instantly and can be
repaid at any time by covering the outstanding amount of USDFL back to
Freeliquid Borrow. It is always possible to only repay a portion of the
outstanding debt or to generate additional USDFL, if the collateral provided is
5

large enough.
Since the volatility of stablecoins and the risk of extreme price surges are
very low, the liquidation module is switched off completely, meaning that
liquidation is not possible. In the future, pairs with more volatile assets will be
added to Freeliquid as possible collateral types. To account for potential risks,
the liquidation function, which is already available for smart contracts, can be
introduced through governance voting.

Working example
To better illustrate how Freeliquid Borrow works, consider the following
example:
● Assume there is a liquidity provider (further called “the LP”) who has a
USDT/USDC pool on Uniswap, which earns them a passive income in the
form of liquidity provider fees.
● The LP’s position has the total value of both tokens locked. Let us take
this value to be equal to 100,000 USD as an example.
● By using Freeliquid Borrow, the LP can lock his liquidity tokens as a
collateral and receive up to 90% of the pool’s total value in the USDFL
stablecoin. In our example, that would be approx. 90,000 USDFL, which
could be immediately issued for the borrower.
● The LP now can use the obtained funds for their own purposes, such as
exchanging USDFL for USDT/USDC and creating another liquidity pool on
Uniswap with a total value of $90,000. In the end, the LP will hold a
liquidity pool of $190,000 in total, which almost doubles the income from
liquidity provider fees, while taking almost no risks.
● Alternatively, the borrowed funds can be used for trading or investing in
crypto assets. This might bring much larger returns on the initial Vault
value, but also entails higher risks.

6

2.3 Freeliquid Save
The USDFL Savings Rate (USDFLSR) is a component of the Freeliquid
Protocol that enables users to lock USDFL and receive yields on their investment.
Users can deposit (withdraw) their USDFL to (from) USDFLSR at any time and
without any restrictions by only paying the Ethereum network fees. The funds
for paying the Savings Rate yields come from Stability Fee earnings (see Chapter
2.2). Since Stability Fees are not charged at the early stage of Freeliquid, the
Savings Rate will be initially set to zero.
After the USDFL tokens are locked in Freeliquid Save, earned USDFL are
continuously generated and accrued to the user's balance. The accumulated
profits for the past time can be claimed at any time. The current yield rate is
susceptible to change through the means of community voting.
The profits from the Savings Rate can be calculated using the following
formula:

𝐴 = 𝑃(1 + 𝑟)𝑡
where:
A = final deposit value;
P = invested deposit value;
r = annual yield rate (determined through voting by FL holders);
t = number of years, during which the deposit remains in USDFLSR.

2.4 Freeliquid Reserve
The Freeliquid Reserve contains USDFL acquired from the revenues of the
Freeliquid Platform. The Freeliquid Reserve is fully controlled by smart contracts
and belongs neither to the developer team, nor to any user.
Freeliquid Reserve funding comes from the difference between revenue
flows from Stability Fees (earned by the protocol in Freeliquid Borrow) and the
Savings Rate (paid by the protocol in Freeliquid Save). The earned USDFL are
used for the buyback of FL tokens from users via auctions. After the auction is
closed following the best bid, the FL tokens bought from users are burned,
effectively reducing the supply of FL.

7

2.5 Oracles
In all financial operations on the Freeliquid Platform, crypto asset prices
are derived from Price Oracles. As in MakerDAO, Oracles consist of a
decentralized network of individual external nodes called Oracle Feeds. Every
user can initiate a transaction by paying the Ethereum network fees and thus
updating Oracle prices on the Freeliquid platform. To cover the transaction costs
and incentivize users to use Oracles, a total of 50,000 FL tokens will be reserved
as rewards (see Chapter 3.3). Transaction initiators will receive FL rewards after
each price update from the Oracles, but not more than once an hour.
At the time of the launch of Freeliquid, the prices of USDC, USDN, and
DAI stablecoins, which are used in calculating collateral value, are assumed to
be exactly equal to 1 US dollar. The price of USDT will be calculated by using
Chainlink‘s decentralized Oracles.

8

3. Freeliquid Governance
The decentralization of the governance structure is one of the highest
priorities of the Freeliquid project. While the Freeliquid developer team will
continue to fully support the project, the decision-making about the current and
future operations of Freeliquid belongs to the user community.
In this chapter, we describe the functionality of FL, as well as the voting
process.

3.1 FL governance token
FL is Freeliquid’s governance token, built on the ERC-20 standard. Holders
of FL are eligible to participate in the governance of the project through voting.
As with the USDFL token, the FL can be stored on or transferred to any ERC-20
wallet, as well as traded on decentralized exchanges.
Users will be rewarded for providing liquidity pools for the FL/USDFL pair
(see Chapter 3.3). As described in Chapter 2.4, the supply of FL tokens will be
additionally decreased through Auctions, where users can receive USDFL for
selling FL tokens, which are consequently burned.

3.2 Freeliquid Voting
FL tokens holders have the right to vote for changes in the Freeliquid
protocol. To access our governance portal, users need to lock their FL tokens by
transferring them to the Voting Contract. To cast a vote, simply send one
transaction.
Every user is eligible to propose changes to facilitate further development
of the decentralized structure of Freeliquid, but only FL holders can cast votes.
After a vote is successfully carried out, the changes are implemented over a
short course of time. For further technical details on how voting works, please
refer to the following MakerDAO documentation.
Through voting, FL token holders are eligible to:
- add new collateral types with custom risk parameters;
- add new risk parameters or change the existing ones;
- modify interest rates for the USDFL Savings Rate;
- determine the group of Oracles that supply the prices;
- execute the Emergency Shutdown of the system;
- adjust the parameters of different types of Auctions.

9

3.3 FL token issuance
The issuance of initial FL tokens will proceed through the Fair Launch
model. This implies that tokens will not be sold on initial coin offering (ICO), but
rather distributed as rewards to Freeliquid users. This decision has been made
to prevent the accumulation of large amounts of FL tokens in the hands of few
holders as well as to make the distribution of FL tokens more accessible and fair.
Initially, 1,000,000 (one million) FL tokens will be generated, which will be
distributed through four distinct programs:
1. Day 1 to 10, distribution of 100,000 FL
In the first 10 days, 100,000 FL will be distributed as early rewards
among users that will lock their liquidity pools consisting of one the
following stablecoin pairs: USDT/USDC, USDT/DAI, USDC/DAI,
USDT/USDN. For as long as the pool stays locked, users will receive FL
rewards on their accounts in proportion to their share in the common
pool.
During the first two days, the “Fair Distribution” rule will be in force to
ensure a fair and uniform distribution. It implies a restriction of the
maximum locked value of assets to $50,000 in total. This rule only
applies to the first reward program.
2. Day 11 to 100, distribution of 400,000 FL
After the first 10 days and for the next 90 days, the FL tokens of this
reward program will be shared among FL/USDFL pools. Users will
receive rewards in proportion to the amount of locked FL/USDFL. The
platform will ensure support for FL/USDFL pools. Users must note that
they will not be able to borrow USDFL against FL/USDFL as collateral.
3. Day 11 to 381, distribution of 450,000 FL
After the first 10 days and for the next 371 days, Freeliquid will
incentivize liquidity providers to create pools with USDFL pairs. Users
will receive rewards in proportion to the locked pools with USDFL and
other tokens in their pair.
4. Day 1 to 712, distribution of 50,000 FL
For the first 712 days, FL rewards are also reserved to incentivize
‘transaction initiators’ to use Oracles for price updates (see Chapter
2.2).

10

FL issuance charts
FL/USDFL pair

The relationship between the amount of FL tokens issued per hour and time
(FL/USDFL pair):

The relationship between the total (cumulative) amount of issued FL tokens and
time (FL/USDFL pair):

11

USDFL stablecoin pairs

The relationship between the number of FL tokens issued per hour and time
(USDFL pairs):

The relationship between total (cumulative) amount of issued FL tokens and
time (USDFL pairs):

12

FL issuance programs combined

The relationship between the amount of FL tokens issued per hour and time
(programs 2 and 3, first chart) and cumulative supply of all four reward programs
(second chart):

Please note that the fourth program (Oracle support rewards) will run for 712
days, after which the total supply of FL tokens will potentially reach 1,000,000
(one million tokens). For visual clarity, however, the time axis is restricted to
fourteen months, which is enough to show all other three reward programs.
The hourly rates of the first and the fourth reward programs are not displayed
on the first chart since they remain constant and thus do not add to the purpose
of illustration.
13

4. Emergency Shutdown
The emergency shutdown function is an essential part of the Freeliquid
smart contract security system. This function is necessary for preventing
emergency situations and is meant to protect Freeliquid user funds from cyberattacks, malicious acts of FL token holders, and extreme market volatility.
Additionally, the feature can be used during the Freeliquid Protocol upgrades
to successfully implement necessary changes.
Emergency shutdown is only possible if FL holders successfully cast their
votes. The Emergency Shutdown module is identical to the one of MakerDAO
and is described in detail in their documentation.

14

