PayFair
The Decentralised Escrow and P2P Cryptoexchange on the Ethereum blockchain

White paper

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.

Abstract

2.
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14

The PayFair platform
The PayFair Tokens
Goals
What the platform solves
Innovations
Blockchain and escrow market analysis
Potential market share
Platform fundamentals
Conditions of a successful escrow deal
Completing an escrow trade
Rating system
Token holder incentives
Trust Nodes – Further Information
Escrow Nodes – Further Information
Platform trade fee

3.
3.1
3.2
3.3

Crowdfunding
Crowdfunding
pre-ICO Stage
ICO

4.

Roadmap

5.

The Team

6.

Contacts and Links

ABSTRACT
Every one of us has faced the dilemma when you
needed a third party to secure a transaction. Perhaps
you have been one of the many that has endured the
hardship of fraud or heard the horror stories that are
prevalent in the cryptocurrency world. The most
common of these tend to involve one of the parties not
meeting all of the requirements or perhaps had vanished
without a trace.
The invention of blockchain technology has offered the
world an opportunity to remove this widespread issue.
Our team has decided to solve this by creating a
convenient, easy-to-use, decentralised, transparent and
independent escrow platform to make safe transactions.
WHAT IS ESCROW SERVICE ?
Escrow is a financial agreement in which a third party
regulates all the processes between two exchanging
parties. It provides a safer transaction as money is held
on a secure account, and the deposit is only released
when all of the requirements have been satisfied. In this
instance, using an escrow service is useful, especially if
large amounts are involved, as it cannot be released
until these requirements are met. For example, a client
has instructed an individual to produce a website. The
client, naturally, would like to verify the quality of the
website before purchasing, and a designer doesn't want
to share his or her work without any guarantee that he or
she receives payment.

THE PAYFAIR PLATFORM
PayFair is a decentralized Escrow platform which
ensures the paramount security of all cryptocurrency
transactions made between two parties. These
transactions include cryptocurrency, FIAT, services and
digital and physical goods.
This service is enabled by the PayFair token (PFR),
which is an ERC-20 token based on the Ethereum
blockchain. These PFR tokens create a network of
“Nodes” that create a decentralized environment.
The cost of using this service is extremely low. We
provide a highly competitive service that completes all
transactions in a safe, private and decentralized
environment resulting in a trust-less experience.
PayFair is not only designed to provide a safer
environment, but also save time. As no third parties are
involved when making a transaction; we can avoid the
time-consuming bureaucracy.

THE PAYFAIR TOKEN
(Ethereum ERC-20 token standard)
PFR tokens are an essential part of the ecosystem and
are designed to fulfill several roles:
1. Create nodes of trust in the platform.
2. Create escrow nodes that will resolve disputes.
3. Enable token holders to receive a commission on
fees.

PAYFAIR GOALS
1. Create trust-less guarantees between contractors,
sellers, and buyers.
2. Ensure a mutually beneficial relationship between
all participants within the platform.
3. Create an independent system without outside or
developer interference.
4. Raise the social interest in cryptocurrencies and
provide an easier to use FIAT Gateway for new
investors.

WHAT THE PLATFORM SOLVES
 Eliminate the lack of trust between contractors,
buyers, and sellers.
 Regulate trade conflicts through the help of a
decentralized, rating driven escrow service.
 Decrease the exorbitant fees that plague the
escrow market.
 Eliminate the potential for opportunistic and
orchestrated fraud.
INNOVATIONS
 Escrow independence is achieved through
anonymity, thus does not depend on contractors.
 Decentralized escrow meaning those who run the
nodes are not linked to any third party but are
engaged independently.
 An escrow rating system will ensure a high level of
customer service and reliance when disputes occur.
 A buyer, seller, and contractor rating system to
ensure those who provide a reliable and/or smooth
transaction are highlighted.
 Full open-source API.
 The most popular cryptocurrencies will be offered
as a means of payment between contractors with
more crypto offerings added as the wider market
matures.
 Self-learning neural system for automatic
transaction processing.

BLOCKCHAIN AND ESCROW MARKETS ANALYSIS

(Picture - Google.Trends when searching «blockchain»)

It has been almost ten years since Bitcoin was
introduced and over the years has built an unarguable
following resulting in the emerging market we see today.
This achievement is a testament to blockchain
technologies of which grow ever more complex with
each improvement we see solve more real-world
problems through the use of blockchain technologies.
CRYPTOCURRENCY MARKET CAPITALIZATION

(Picture - Total Market Capitalization by Global Charts
https://coinmarketcap.com/charts/)

(Picture - Analysis of «escrow» search)

The rise of total cryptocurrency capitalization is close to
6000% since 2013. Meaning there is a clear growing
global interest. New investors who see the definite
potential of blockchain technologies are entering the
market at an exponential rate.
Whereas «escrow» search has been stable for over five
years; meaning a steady demand.

POTENTIAL MARKET SHARE
 Trust Nodes that utilise smart contracts resulting in
trading without human interaction
 Decentralised anonymous escrow nodes with no
driver to defraud the system
 Cryptocurrency to:
o Fiat exchange service
o Domains and websites
o Freelance and online services
o Physical and digital goods (video games etc.)

PLATFORM FUNDAMENTALS
Ecosystem is a platform for completing transactions
and deals.
Fee (commission) is a payment for the transaction made
by the buyer and seller (or contractor).
Buyer — a party interested in transaction safety.
Seller — a party selling items, goods or services.
Trust node — PFR token holders.
Escrow — an independent and anonymous chain of
escrow-nodes. Escrow settle the differences.
Escrow-node — PFR token holders in status escrow.

COMPLETING AN ESCROW TRADE
1. The party(s) deposit cryptocurrency into the
decentralised escrow account.
2. Buyer and seller confirm the terms of the deal have
been met (not relevant if crypto to crypto
transaction)
3. 3 Consecutive “successful” decisions from the
escrow-nodes
4. Payment is released from the escrow account
Person A and Person B are trading. Both ask Person C
(Escrow node) to hold the fund within a decentralized
escrow account. Both Person A and Person B are happy
with their goods/payment/service, and the funds are
released.
However, if either of the parties is unhappy, the
transaction is held in escrow during the dispute process.
It will be held there until a resolution has been
determined. The escrow accounts will be able to request
additional evidence to support the transaction to further
ensure a successful outcome.

RATING SYSTEM
Rating of escrow-nodes
 The rating system will create a self-regulating
ecosystem with reliable participants of an escrowchain
 Improves competency, confidence of trades
between parties and open-mindedness
 Fair fee distribution between the participants
Rating of buyers, sellers, and contractors
 Improves mutual confidence between the parties
even without the use of escrow-nodes
 When using the platform for escrow service multiple
times, rating helps to lower the fees for
transactions, therefore, encouraging clients to use
the platform more and more
TOKEN HOLDER INCENTIVES
Trust-nodes are awarded for their passive participation
in the system. They receive a commission for every
successful trade on the platform of which is paid out in
the currency that each trade was completed in.
Escrow-nodes are awarded for their active participation
in the system. They receive a commission for each
successful trade they have participated in of which is
paid out in the currency that the trade was completed in.
Payments are automated and enabled by smart contracts

TRUST NODES - FURTHER INFORMATION
The trust node is a critical element within the network
and performs the important job of maintaining, updating,
and securing the PayFair ecosystem. Trust Nodes
support the price of the token; they make it stable and
resistant to dramatic changes.
To set up a trust node you will need 10,000 PFR
minimum. Trust nodes are weighted meaning additional
PFR over 10,000 will multiply the payout value. For
example: 17,000 PFR = 1.7x payout
The advantage of Trust Nodes over other master nodes
is that there are no hardware requirements or 247
online time. Simply use the signing feature within
myetherwallet to link your PFR wallet with the PayFair
platform, then sit back and enjoy your passive income.

ESCROW NODES - FURTHER INFORMATION
Escrow-nodes ensure the integrity of a trade between
parties (buyer and seller). Escrow (or Guarantor) nodes
are secured by PFR tokens, meaning every decision in
the ecosystem is ensured by value and is performed by
a real person. When this is combined with an Escrow
rating system it further supports its ability to rid the
platform of bad actors.

Current masternode systems do not allow participants to
connect in any meaningful human-to-human way.
PayFair’s “Smart Wallet” technology will allow Escrow
node holders to easily connect and communicate with
other Escrow node holders (unless they wish to stay
anonymous.) This new type of networking gives the PFR
token a clear advantage over similar coins because
Escrow node holders can more easily organise
themselves because they know who each other are.
Escrow Nodes are an immutable $250 worth of PFR,
operating an Escrow node will require active
participation within the platform. This participation
comes in the way of resolving disputes between buyers
and seller based on the information provided.
PLATFORM TRADE FEE
Every fee on PAYFAIR platform will be distributed:
Non-escrow deal
(1% fee, without taking into account contractor rating)
Trust-node — 80%
Marketing, supporting ecosystem — 20%
Escrow deal
(1.5% fee, without taking into account contractor rating)
Trust-node — 1%
Escrow-node who made the decision — 99%

CROWDFUNDING
The total amount of tokens in circulation is 100,000,000
and are pre-mined. The following is the breakdown of
the 100,000,000 distribution:
Pre-ICO

30 000 000

ICO

56 000 000

Reserved for PAYFAIR team*

11 000 000

Bounty campaign

3 000 000

* frozen for 12 months
PRE-ICO STAGE WILL USED FOR FURTHER
MARKETING
 PRE-ICO period will be held for 30 days
 The minimal target is 40000$
After reaching this amount and finishing pre-ico
campaign, tokens will be transferred to your ethereum
wallet.
Pre-ICO goals:
 Identify the social interest in the project
 Creating a strategy for promoting the ICO platform

ICO CAMPAIGN WILL BE HELD FOR 30 DAYS
Funding will be processed through Ethereum smartcontract
https://github.com/payfairio/smartcontracts
ICO goals:
 Determining base token value
 Creating a financial base for further development
according to the roadmap; marketing and promoting
 Fair distribution among trust-nodes
ICO BONUSES
To encourage early investors we offer early stage
bonuses:
1 day — 20%
2-5 days — 15%
6-10 days — 10%
11-20 days — 5%
21-30 days — 0%

ROADMAP

THE TEAM
Our team doesn’t include influential people or leaders of
opinions. We feel that this it's the most important thing to
create a successful business. We instead opted to unite
high-class specialists and create a driven and
passionate team. Our motivation is to see the platform
grow into a world-class alternative to central crypto to
fiat exchanges.
Denis Salangin (Founder)

Denis is an entrepreneur and a start-up founder with experience in
marketing and commercial projects. He has vast experience in project
management and excellent understanding of principles of decentralized
systems based on blockchain.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/denis-salangin-21041114a/
https://vk.com/id62975354

Evgeniy Pomelov (Community manager)

Evgeniy is a specialist in communication
with over five years of experience in PR
and social media. He is managing our
communities on Telegram, Facebook,
Twitter and other social media. Evgeniy
knows how to speak the same language
with all the people.

https://t.me/JohnPomelov
https://www.linkedin.com/in/john-pomelov-94a41014a/
https://www.facebook.com/john.pomelov

Dmitriy Plishkin (Digital Marketing)

Dmitriy has been working as a PR and
marketing manager for four years. He
specializes in contextual and media
promotion, online PR. His expertise
spans all aspects of digital marketing –
with an emphasis on comprehensive
Internet presence management.
https://t.me/Dplishkin

Aleksey Suvorov (Lead developer)

Alexey has more than six years of
experience in project development and
management. He is exceptionally skilled
in building advanced systems and
developing
solutions
for
business
automation. Alexey is proficient at
Javascript, Php, and Python.

https://t.me/Navlis23

Vyacheslav Butorin (Fullstack developer)

Vyacheslav has over five years of
experience in web programming. He is
skilled at developing solutions for ecommerce and advertising companies.
He specializes in full-stack development
using modern tools and frameworks.

https://t.me/Sloker

Roman Lihachev (Backend
developer )

Roman has been creating stable and
scalable projects with our team for two
years. He is especially skilled in backend
services and distributed systems. Roman
has excellent experience in SQL, nonSQL and in-memory database systems.

https://t.me/RomanLikhachev

Kristina Zayakina (Frontend
developer)
Kristina has over three years of
experience in design and front-end
development. She is skilled in HTML,
JS/CSS frameworks, and websites speed
optimization. Kristina uses her knowledge
of coding and design to ensure a clean
and professional looking UI.

https://t.me/Nuxe5

Michael Nikitin (Frontend developer)
Michael has two years of experience in
creating easy-to-use sites and web
applications. He has delivered front-end
solutions for a lot of local start-ups.
Michael is proficient at HTML5, CSS3,
JavaScript and Semantic UI.

https://t.me/MikeGood

CONTACTS
Website: https://payfair.io
Telegram: https://t.me/payfair
Email: support@payfair.io
Medium: https://medium.com/@PayFair/
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Payfairio/
Twitter: https://twitter.com/payfairio
GitHub: https://github.com/payfairio/
Reddit: https://www.reddit.com/r/payfair
Bitcointalk:
https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2127946

