FUTUREXCRYPTO
THE FUTURE OF MONEY

WHITEPAPER

Read this notice very carefully. Consult your own legal
advice before engaging in any activity.

Neither we nor any third party service provider shall
be liable for any kind of damage or loss, including
direct and indirect, that may fall upon you as a
result of reading this whitepaper, materials
produced by FXC or using the Futuresxcrypto
websites at: www.futurexcrypto.com
NO OFFERS OF SECURITIES, ADVICE OR SOLICITATION
This whitepaper is intended for informational purposes only. It
is not intended to be investment advice, solicitation of any kind
nor an endorsement. Any decisions or actions taken on the
basis of information presented in this whitepaper, the
Futuresxcrypto websites or other content is done at your own
risk and discretion.

 The projected performance of the project.
 Completion of the campaign .
 The expected development of the project
 Execution of the Project‘s vision and

strategy.
 Future liquidity, Working capital, and capital
requirements.

VISION
At FUTURESCRYPTO, Our vision is to disinter mediate access to sophisticated investment
pla9orms previously reserved for the ultra wealthy and the well connected. By democratizing
our pool fund, we can offer a previously unattainable level of service, diversification, and
transparency in wealth management to the casual investor. At the heart of our mission is the
aim to use decentralized block chain technology to distribute the tools and information
necessary to allow the individual to compete with the resources and scale of major financial
institutions, thus eliminating the market advantage provided to them by a system of
gatekeepers and intermediaries. Ultimately, we envision a future of financial markets driven by
liquidity of information and the agency and autonomy of the individual investor.

ABSTRACT
About eight years ago, a pseudonymous cryptographer known as Satoshi Nakamoto introduced Bitcoin as a
digital analog to gold: Limited in supply, but secured by modern cryptography, and made for the internet
age. Following Satoshi’s footsteps, many tried to improve on Satoshi’s original vision, and thousands of
alternative Cryptocurrencies were born. Despite significant recent developments and
innovation, the market for Cryptocurrencies remains very niche.
Cryptocurrencies still have shortcomings that discourage
mainstream use, in particular high volatility and barriers to
entry. It’s also worth noting that existing Cryptocurrencies
have not been designed with Islamic markets in mind.
While the 1.6 billion Muslims make up over 23 percent of the world
population, many Muslims simply can’t use Cryptocurrencies
because of their restricted legal status and high barriers to entry
in many countries in the Islamic world. Future X Crypto Coin
aims to solve these issues by using blockchain technology to
create a new kind of Cryptocurrency, where each coin is backed
by one gram of gold at launch. In addition, each transaction
of Future XCrypto Coin (FXC) generates a small transaction
fee which is reinvested in more gold (net of admin costs),
thus increasing the amount of gold that backs each Future
X Crypto Coin. Therefore, each FXC increases in real value
over time, making Future X Crypto Coin unique among
Cryptocurrencies.

FXC

Limited Downside Unlimited Upside

The history of fiat currency is a history of volatility. The average lifespan of fiat currency is only 27 years old5
. Even if a currency survives, invariably it will experience inflation. With central banks having the power to
print as much currency as they please, combined with the destructive effects of inflation, the purchasing
power of fiat money experiences a steady decline. The world’s oldest fiat currency, the British pound, is an
excellent example: it has lost 99.5 percent of its value since inception.
Historically gold is more resilient, and holds its worth better than any fiat currency,
particularly in times of economic instability.
No currency can guarantee absolute stability, but Future X Crypto Coin limits your
exposure to the downside risk. Since the base price of Future X Crypto Coin is
always at least equal to the spot price of gold, Future X Crypto Coin has a floor
price.
What’s more is that usage and market demand also adds a premium to the value of
Future X Crypto Coin. Therefore, Future X Crypto Coin has a three-part valuation
system to determine its market price. The first part is the Gold Value (GV), with the
value being determined by the spot price of gold.
The second part is the present value of the transaction fees reinvested to buy more gold
(TF), with the value being determined by the usage of FXC.
The last part is the Demand Premium (DP), with the value being determined by market
demand. This creates the following formula for the market price: Future X Crypto Coin
Value = GV + TF + DP

CRYPTOCURRENCIES
Bitcoin and alternative crypto currencies are starting to see widespread adoption. The
main innovation behind crypto currencies is that, instead of relying on a trusted third
party, transactions are recorded and propagated in a distributed ledger known as
“blockchain.” This allows transactions to be trust less, censorship-resistant, permission
less and private. Once a transaction is confirmed by the blockchain network, it
becomes irreversible: it can’t be charged back through a dispute process like other
forms of money transfer.
Cryptocurrencies promise to radically change how we do banking by removing artificial
barriers caused by legacy financial institutions, allowing for:
True peer-to-peer payments anywhere in the world.
Minimal transaction fees and processing time compared to traditional banking.
Payments between pseudonymous parties ensuring financial privacy.
Non-reversible transactions preventing chargeback's and fraud. 

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
FutureXcrypto Coin uses a unique proof-of-stake blockchain with over 3
months of development by expert crypto currency engineers. Our fullycustomized blockchain takes inspiration from Bitcoin, Dash and Black
Coin. All transactions are near-instant and private.
We strengthened the consensus mechanism by introducing trusted
nodes operated by verified entities. The cumulative 2.5% transaction
fees distributed in a block reward to the trusted nodes will maintain a
secure blockchain. The Future X Crypto Coin blockchain block size limit is
1MB with an average 1 minute block time.

Decrease risk:
Our goal is to create a safe and trustworthy
environment for the community to trade and access
their Cryptocurrencies.

Lower cost:
We aim to reduce the service fees that are offered by
payment aggregators. In the current market, cross
border payments processing takes up to 5%-8% of the
total amount. Furthermore, the buyers have to wait
for days, sometimes weeks for payments to be
processed. As a businessperson, this is not sustainable
because it slows business operations. We aim to not
only offer low costs, but a seamless and transparent
payment process as well.

Merchants get a wider client base:
By accepting Cryptocurrencies as means of payment,
merchants will be able to attract whole new groups of
customers since Cryptocurrencies know no borders or
other limitations. This will enable them to expand their
operations to new markets and offer additional goods
and services.

For initial token backers:
Those taking part in the ICO have an opportunity to
fund a project with real value beyond mere
speculation. Apart from being tradable on the
FXCrypto exchange, the FXC Coins will be used to lower
the fees of virtually all FXCservices and to access
exclusive hard- and software. To gain access to these
benefits, the customer needs to transfer the FXC coins
to FXC, resulting in a smaller supply on the market.
Holders of the FXC coins will, therefore see a gradual
appreciation in value with time.

We have already installed Multi
Crypto currency ATMs in 70
locations spanning 4 European
countries. Every week new
locations are added to our
network. We offer two distinct
ATM models, enabling us to adapt
to a variety of market situations.
Our compact one-way ATMs allow
the customers to purchase a wide
range of Cryptocurrencies, while
our two-way ATMs also offer the
option to exchange
Cryptocurrencies for cash.
Additionally, NFC support for digital
payments will soon be added to all
machines. The ATMs meet the
highest quality and safety
standards while requiring very little
maintenance: with a power- and
internet connection you are ready
to go. We also offer mobile
hardware solutions. While
continuing the expansion
throughout Europe, FutureXrypto
has already formed cooperation’s
with partners in many South East
Asian countries - such as Indonesia,
Hong Kong and Japan to name a
few - who will help with the
distribution of our ATMs on a large
scale

GROWTH WITH EVERY TRANSACTION
Each Future X Crypto Coin transaction generates a 1% transaction fee, up to a maximum of 1
FXC. Unlike other Cryptocurrencies, in Future X Crypto Coin, 70% of this fee is reinvested to
buy more gold and increase the amount of gold that backs each token. As transaction volume
increases, more gold gets added to the vault and all Future X Crypto Coin owners share in the
profit. So, over time, the value of each Future X Crypto Coin rises by design. This makes
Future X Crypto Coin a unique asset whose value increases perpetually. 25% of this fee will be
used for development & Operations. 2.5% will be donated to Charities and 2.5% will reward
miners (POS staking).

The transaction volume for a new crypto currency is typically low. To
address this, we will be introducing a variety of tools for rapid realworld adoption of FutureXcrypto Coin as a currency. FutureXcrypto
Coins are issued and redeemed for gold via the GoldGuard platform.
Following the ICO, the OGCs can be bought, sold and traded via any
major crypto currency trading platform.
A new payment gateway, YalaPay, will be launched for FutureXcrypto
Coin Coins. Besides fiat conversion, YalaPay will include marketing
tools such as a white label loyalty program for merchants, featuring
special offers, and discounts for customers. The model will be first
introduced in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, with the payment institution
license already in place. A Gold Guard MasterCard debit card (“Liquid
Gold”) will also be created, which will work across the globe in ATMs,
POS systems and online. It will be possible to recharge the Liquid Gold
card with Fiat, OGC or Gold through our payment gateway, online or
through Gold Guard ATM machines

Smooth Entry and Exit With Gold Guard
Buying and selling Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin is not always an easy task. Depending on where you live, there may be no
obvious entry and exit point. Mining Cryptocurrencies is even more difficult, requires costly equipment, and is definitely not
for the average user. This is one of the reasons we are doing our ICO with Gold Guard, offering the investors an easy way to
acquire Future X Crypto Coin Coins.
Once a Future X Crypto Coin is issued, it can be redeemed for physical gold from Gold Guard at any time. Any Future X
Crypto Coin redeemed for gold or equivalent in fiat currency is sent to a publicly verifiable burn address, permanently
removing the coin from circulation.
Gold Guard is licensed with Dubai Airport Free Zone (DAFZ) to trade jewellery, namely gold. Established in 1996, within the
boundaries of Dubai International Airport, DAFZ is one of the fastest growing Free Zones in the region.
While Gold Guard has a license to operate in Dubai, the gold we buy are safeguarded by logistics and transportation experts
from our gold suppliers/storage providers. Our gold suppliers and storage providers are located in Dubai and Singapore.
All accounts at Gold Guard are asset-backed, audited by PwC, and insured against theft and damage.

Giving Back to the Community
Giving back to the community and setting a good
example for others is central to how we do business. We
seek to contribute to social and economic progress both
globally and locally.
With that in mind, we created the Future X Crypto Coin
Foundation (OGF). OGF will take 2.5% of the total
transaction fees that Future X Crypto Coin products
generate and donate it to local and international
charities.
By sharing our success, we aim to bring relief to the lives
of the less fortunate. OGF supports the principles of
Islamic sharing and caring. The Future X Crypto Coin
community is contributing, through corporate social
responsibility, to humanitarian causes.

INITIAL COIN OFFERING (ICO)
Coin Name

Futurexcrypto (FXC)

Algorithm

ERC - 20

Type

TOKEN

RPC port

-

P2P port

-

Total coin supply

5000000000 Tokens

Premine coins

2500000000 T0kens

Coin Price* Fixed to 0.50 USD
Pre ICO start date November 22nd , 2017 CEST
Pre ICO end date January 11th , 2017 CET

Business Plan

At Futurexcrypto we are guided by the principle that in the IT
service industry you have to keep innovating and introducing new
products in order to stay competitive. Additionally, as a young and
dynamic sector, the crypto currency world is constantly in motion.
This forces companies to proactively adapt to the development of
the market situation, following the motto: The early bird gets the
worm.

More features to come
FXC is permanently and actively working on improving
the existing systems and services. Online wallet support
for additional Cryptocurrencies will soon be added,
together with an ever-growing list of tradable
Cryptocurrencies. An attractive and transparent affiliate
program, which anyone can join, is already well
underway: Our affiliate partners will receive 20% of all
fees their recruited customers pay. Development of iOS
and Android Smartphone apps for the exchange will
soon begin, allowing you to never again miss rapid
price fluctuations on the crypto market. We expect to
deliver a finished product by mid 2018.

https://en-gb.facebook.com/login/

https://twitter.com/login

https://web.telegram.org/#/login

