Galactrum: Community Controlled
Autonomous Digital Currency

Shensu (Developer)
Iwasaki (Developer)
GAB5TER (Developer)
Tiangou (Community Manager)
Original Release March 2018
Revised March 2019

Abstract. Galactrum (ORE) is an
autonomous digital currency, forked off
of the Dash platform. In this paper the
improvements Galactrum has
implemented over its predecessors,
including advanced staking capabilities,
user experience and democratic controls,
are discussed. The philosophies and
motivations behind creating a selffunded, decentralized, community
controlled digital currency that
demonstrates the applications and
developmental freedoms of a democratic
proposal and voting system will be
explored.
1. Introduction
Bitcoin is a revolutionary digital
currency that emerged in 2009 and was
hard pressed to gain public acceptance.
Over time Bitcoin has been more openly
accepted and implemented into an
increasing number of applications. This
has mainly been a result of its practical
use and value as a medium of exchange.
Bitcoin has provided us a baseline
demonstration with great practicality and
security, as well as paving the road for
blockchain technology[1]. On the
downside, Bitcoin's technology is
becoming outdated. With much faster and
more reliable systems already competing
for the market space, Bitcoin has a slow
and difficult time adapting to changing
conditions[2]. Additionally, Bitcoin has
lost its integrity as being a decentralized
currency due to Application-Specific
Integrated Circuit (ASIC) mining
equipment that has created a monopoly
over the minting of coins. This erosion of

fairness has grown for multiple proof-ofwork (PoW) algorithms, including SHA256
and X11, used by Bitcoin and Dash,
respectively[3].
Dash was founded on January 28,
2014, under its original name Xcoin.
XCoin, which was rebranded as Darkcoin
10 days later, eventually took the final
name Dash in March 2015. Dash achieved
many of its goals and quickly grew into a
highly valued digital asset[4]. One of
Dash’s main features is an incentivized
masternode network that requires locking
1000 Dash. The Dash masternode network
was easier to join in its early stages. Dash
witnessed a huge growth period as
demand increased dramatically[5]. Over
time Dash grew into a peer-to-peer
network of thousands of nodes. While this
imposing growth gave Dash compelling
network stability, it came at a cost. Dash
now faces the same issue it set out to
solve; growth potential in the peer-topeer network.
As demand for Dash grew, it
became more difficult to acquire, to the
point of being impossible for the general
public to obtain the 1000 Dash needed for
a masternode. This demand indicates
future growth and development will be
centralized towards institutional investors
and ASIC mining monopolies[6], further
undermining the goals of a
“decentralized” currency.
Galactrum uses the Lyra2v2
chained algorithm to secure block
hashing. Combined with quick 2 minute
block times, the latest advanced Dark

Gravity Wave difficulty targeting, and
cold-storage staking, Galactrum is a
modern platform ready for usage by the
masses.

possible votes. This gives Galactrum a
decentralized and democratic approach
to its structure and future development
while also remaining fully transparent.
Every vote is cast on the Galactrum DAO
for public view in each cycle.

2. Proposal and Voting System
2.2 Galactrum Treasury
Galactrum establishes community
control through a transparent proposal
and voting system. Anyone may submit a
proposal pertaining to the current state
and/or future development of Galactrum
for a small fee, paid in ORE (the fee is
burned, increasing scarcity). A proposal is
to be outlined presenting the
development or changes proposed in a
clear and professional manner with a
detailed plan. Proposals may request a
budget.
Writing proposals and votes
directly to the blockchain results in a
decentralized and censorship resistant
democracy. The first voting cycle begins
at block 197,100. Votes are tallied and
budgets paid every voting cycle, which is
21,900 blocks (approximately 30 days).

After the voting cycle begins 10%
of every block is reserved in the treasury
for proposals. Proposals can request one
time payment or recurring payments. It is
up to the masternode operators to
examine the proposal and determine if
the requested funds are reasonable.
Masternode operators can revoke their
vote at any time and funds are only
awarded at the end of voting cycle.
2.3 Voting Platform

2.1 Decentralized Autonomous
Organization

The Galactrum DAO lives inside its
blockchain, powered by its consensus
algorithm. Accessing the underpinnings of
the DAO core functionality are esoteric
and cryptic to a non-technical user.
Without a web-based voting platform
tool, it would be extremely difficult to
participate in the DAO for the average
user.

The Decentralized Autonomous
Organization (DAO) consists of Galactrum
masternode operators. Operating a
masternode is the only requirement to
holding a seat on the DAO. Each
masternode on the network may cast 1
yay/nay vote per proposal. Proposals
must receive 10% yay votes of the total

The Galactrum voting platform
will assist users in formatting their
proposals into the appropriate bytecode
needed to broadcast to the network from
the wallet console. Additionally, the
platform will track current proposals,
display statistics, and serve a place for
community discussion and debate.

3. ASIC-Resistant PoW Phase
Bitcoin was originally intended to
be a decentralized and distributed
currency where the security and integrity
of the blockchain is not controlled by a
single entity or group. The creator of
Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto, once wrote
“One CPU, One Vote”[7]. However, the
birth of specialized chips called
Application-Specific Integrated Circuit
(ASIC) that can mine Bitcoin thousands of
times more efficiently than any desktop
computer made mining inaccessible to
the general public. Bitcoin mining is now
dominated by a small group of people
with the capital to develop or purchase
these ASICs, and the ability to build and
maintain large mining farms[6]. This gives
them a disproportionate amount of
influence, making it easier to mount a
successful 51% attack.
Galactrum’s PoW (proof-of-work)
hashing algorithm, called Lyra2REv2
(often shortened to Lyra2v2), was
designed specifically to resist the
development of custom mining hardware
and multi-pool mining. This resistance
ensured that all transactions are verified
by a widely distributed network.
3.1 Lyra2v2 Technical Advantages
Lyra2v2 is a more efficient
password-based key derivation scheme
that allows legitimate users to fine tune
memory, processing costs and parallelism
according to the desired level of security
and resources available in the target
platform. It employs the use of

cryptographic algorithms that allows the
generation of a pseudorandom string of
bits from the transaction message and
private key provided by the sender. This
process employs a one-way function, so
that recovering the private key from the
output string of bits is computationally
infeasible, making it almost impossible to
reverse engineer the private key. To
achieve this, Lyra2v2 uses the concept of
reduced-round cryptographic sponges,
creating a strictly sequential process.
These sponge functions are an iterated
mode of operation that uses a fixedlength permutation and a padding rule.
Additionally, Lyra2v2 brings the following
important improvements:
•

It allows a significantly higher security
level against attack venues involving
time-memory trade-offs.

•

It allows legitimate users to benefit
more effectively from the parallelism
capabilities of their own platforms.

•

It includes tweaks for increasing the
costs involved in the construction of
dedicated hardware to attack the
algorithm.

•

It balances resistance against sidechannel threats and attacks relying on
cheaper storage devices.

The combination of a strictly
sequential design, the high costs of timememory trade-offs, and the ability to
raise the memory usage beyond what is
attainable with similar solutions security
levels and processing time, make Lyra2v2
a powerful solution for an efficient and
secure cryptographic hashing.

3.2 End of PoW Phase
As of early 2019, the rise of ASICs
that can be used on Lyra2v2[8] has
motivated the shift towards alternative
consensus mechanisms for Galactrum.
Early on, Galactrum’s PoW consensus
allowed for many GPU miners to
participate. New factors such as rentable
mining pools and ASICs targeting Lyra2v2
have decreased the decentralized nature
of Galactrum’s PoW consensus.
To solve the issue of centralization
occuring on the PoW mining network,
there are two possible paths forward. The
first obvious path would be to fork the
PoW hashing algorithm to a new ASICresistant algorithm. This would only delay
the inevitable, as it is likely only be a
matter of time until another ASIC is
developed for that replacement
algorithm. The other, more future-proof
solution, is to change the method of
consensus entirely.

4. Proof of Stake and Stakenodes
The rise of more diverse ASIC
mining equipment that can be used to
out-compete graphics cards at mining has
led to advancements in alternatives to
proof-of-work mining. Proof-of-stake
(PoS) is a new alternative consensus
algorithm that relies on a different
method to achieve permission-less
consensus. PoS involves spending ORE
itself to create a kernel “stake” that the
network recognizes as adequate work for

minting a block. Until recently, PoS has
required a wallet with the ORE to be
“online” (unlocked and open) at all times
in order to stake. Powered by new
advancements in the core blockchain
protocol, in particular Segregated
Witness, Galactrum has the capability to
“offline” (locked and closed) stake ORE.
Offline-staking is achieved through
a special kind of full-node called a
stakenode. Stakenodes protect the
owners of the ORE from being staked by
allowing them to take their ORE offline,
while still participate in minting blocks.
Sufficient PoW phase has created a large
and diverse circulation of ORE, needed
for a decentralized staking network.
4.1 Staking Consensus Protocol
Galactrum’s PoS protocol achieves
consensus through a special transaction,
called a coinstake. The age-based
selection of an ORE coinstake takes into
consideration how “old” the ORE is, or in
other words, the date at which it was last
moved during a transaction. The first
input to a coinstake is known as the
“kernel”. The owner of the kernel spends
the coinstake and thus, resets the coinage of the kernel. Block 337000 will be
the last PoW minable block, afterwards
the network will switch to only PoS.
4.2 Stakenodes
Through a special kind of smart
contract that requires 1 ORE to create,
owners of ORE can delegate the ability to

stake their ORE with a stakenode. These
stakenodes can also be masternodes (see
section 5), but operate independent of
the masternode system. A stakenode
operator may be the owner of the ORE
used to stake, or it can also be a
completely untrusted third party. This
creates a realm of stakenode operators
that cater to the needs of an owner of
ORE who wishes to stake while offline.
The owner of the stake contract
delegates a percentage of the block
reward that will go to the stakenode
operator, from 1-99%. At any time, the
owner of the stakenode contract can
cancel their contract and regain full
access of their ORE (including the 1 ORE
required to create the contract). Block
rewards are safely distributed to the
contract owner and stakenode operator.

5. Masternode Network
A P2P (peer-to-peer) digital
currency is comprised of full nodes,
partial nodes and Stakenodes. The
masternode network is a network of full
nodes facilitating connectivity, selfgovernace, transaction relays and
blockchain stewardship. Masternodes play
a paramount role in network stability,
security and usability, and as such, are
compensated with a portion of the block
reward. Additionally, Galactrum
masternode operators earn a vote in
Galactrum DAO.
Blockchain full nodes require a

significant amount of resources to
operate, namely hard disk space, to
maintain a full copy of the blockchain and
relay transactions. This increasing
demand for resources ultimately birthed
a decline in the number of active nodes
across the Bitcoin network[9]. With its
advanced and innovative code, Galactrum
is able to reliably transfer large amounts
of data, in less time, all while using
considerably fewer resources. With a
target block time of 2 minutes combined
with a block size limit of 8Mb, Galactrum
is prepared to scale for generations.
5.1 Masternode Stewardship
To operate a Galactrum
masternode, 1,000 ORE is needed for
collateral. This collateral is used to
prevent Sybil attacks[10]. Once the
masternode has been set up and
operational, your wallet will lock the
1,000 ORE in place. This ensures the
masternode collateral is unaffected and
the masternode is granted access to the
network. This collateral is not forfeit. It
is held as a bond which allows a
masternode to participate on the network
to receive a portion of the block reward.
This collateral may be recovered
whenever the operator wishes to
terminate their masternode.
Masternodes must maintain a
consistent uptime and not go offline for
more than 1 hour. Doing so will require
the masternode operator to rebroadcast a
signed start message to reintegrate to the
network, and as such, will lose their
current place in the block reward queue.

5.2 Block Rewards

After the network has switched to
PoS the reward is distributed as follows:

Masternodes are identical to full
nodes on the Bitcoin network. However,
Bitcoin nodes lack the incentive to
operate. With costs far outweighing any
benefits, over time the number of nodes
has decreased substantially on the Bitcoin
network. This has led to the masternode
reward system being implemented across
many new digital assets.
The consensus algorithm offers
node operators a pre-determined share of
newly generated ORE as well as a share of
the transaction fees on the network. Like
many other blockchains, Galactrum's
block reward decreases over time to
combat inflation. When the maximum
supply has been generated, miners and
masternodes will no longer generate new
coins, instead, they will be rewarded
from the transaction fees on the network.
Galactrums block reward starts at
10 ORE and decreases by 50% every 5
years. The reward is distributed as
follows for the PoW phase:

Block Height

Miner Masternode Treasury

1-89999

50%

50%

0%

90000-99999

40%

60%

0%

100000-109999

30%

70%

0%

110000-197099

20%

80%

0%

197100-3499999 18%

72%

10%

Block Height

Minter Masternode Treasury

350000 +

27%

63%

10%

Only one masternode is paid in
each block creation. Masternodes are
paid in a round-robin fashion, scaling to
any number of masternodes (note that
the current ORE supply is the only
limiting factor to the number of active
masternodes). This method of scaling
leads to fluctuations in masternode
rewards and can be calculated using the
following formula:

n
r∗b∗a
t
Where the terms are defined as:
n

# of masternodes operator owns

t

Total number of masternodes

r

Current block reward subsidy

b

Daily create block average

a

Percent of masternode payment

5.3 Deterministic Block Reward
Ordering
Masternodes are paid in a pseudorandom
order to avoid any possibility of
manipulation. The hash from each proofof-work block is used to secure this

algorithm for selecting a winner from the
network.
Psuedocode which selects a masternode
block reward payee:

// blockHashes maps height->hash
// masternodeVins maps
//

masternode->vin

// HEIGHT is current block number
top_score = 0
For(m in masternodes) {
hash = blockHashes[HEIGHT]
vin = masternodeVins[m]
score = abs(hash – vin)
if(score > top_score){

Newly mined coins become rarer as the
supply decreases and it becomes difficult
to obtain a majority of ORE.
A large decentralized masternode
network enables Galactrum to execute
highly sensitive tasks on the network in a
trustless manner, where no single entity
can manipulate the results. For each task
assigned, a selected amount of
pseudorandom masternodes from the
network perform the same task.
Randomizing the work distribution to
multiple nodes ensures there is no way to
manipulate the results of the task.
Similar to the manner in which a fork is
corrected on a blockchain, in the event of
a conflict, the results of the task are
determined by the majority influence.

top_score = score
payee = m
}

6. Wallet Platforms

}

5.4 Trustless Network Consensus
Incentivization of operating a
masternode or a stakenode creates a
decentralized network of nodes that are
difficult to manipulate. If the majority of
the circulating supply is locked into
existing masternodes, the attacker would
be unable acquire enough ORE to carry
out mastenrode network disruption.
Ultimately it becomes impossible for any
one person to control a majority of the
available ORE because the required
supply is not present when a high number
of nodes are active on the network.

At the core of Galactrum is a
family versatile and user friendly wallet
GUI (graphical user interface) programs.
It attempts to forge a balance between
implementing the complex features of
Galactrum while maintaining usability
and comfort. It is essential, from a
decentralization standpoint, to extend
the reach of Galactrum to as many
platforms as possible.
6.1 Desktop Wallets
To be applicable for a wide range
of use cases, Galactrum has developed
desktop wallets for Windows, Mac OSX,
and Linux/Unix environments. Core

features such as stakenode contract
management, governance, and
masternode management are available
across all desktop platforms.
The main philosophy behind the
design of the Galactrum desktop wallets
is simplicity and usability. Using a lowcontrast theme and minimizing the
amount of extraneous windows, the
Galactrum desktop wallets achieve a
succinct and pleasant user experience.
6.2 Mobile Wallets
As the digital world rapidly
advances, many actions on the internet
are carried out by mobile phones. To
preserve relevance and increase usability,
Galactrum is developing wallets for all
the major mobile platforms, such as iOS
and Android. Mobile wallets bridge a key
gap between consumers and merchants.
With mobile wallets, Galactrum suddenly
becomes useful in situations where use of
a desktop computer is not available or
desired. This is a key stepping stone in
the proliferation of ORE.

7. Conclusion
This paper has discussed the core
concepts and motivations of Galactrum.
Based on advanced cryptographic tools
and methods, Galactrum establishes a
robust and advanced system for
commerce and self-governance.
Decentralized democratic processes make
up the core components of Galactrum’s

design. By implementing forward thinking
practices, such as an internal treasury for
development voted on by masternode
owners, the Galactrum platform is
positioned for long-term success and
relevancy.
Leveraging on the success of its
predecessors, Bitcoin and Dash,
Galactrum lays out a concrete and
precise strategy for self-expansion and
developmental growth. Featuring
essential innovations such as
cryptographically secure payments and
cold storage staking makes Galactrum
applicable to a wide range of uses. P2P
digital currencies offer an exciting new
frontier and Galactrum strives to be at
the forefront of this new wave of
thought.

Bibliography
1: Empson, Rip, "Bitcoin: How An
Unregulated, Decentralized Virtual
Currency Just Became A Billion Dollar
Market",
2: Jonald Fyookball,
https://medium.com/@jonaldfyookball/
why-does-bitcoin-have-ridiculously-highfees-and-slow-confirmationse3fd58258a6d, 2017
3: Darryn Pollock, Bitmain's Mining
Monopoly Compromises Bitcoin's
Decentralized Nature, 2017
4: Theo Tsihitas, Dash vs Bitcoin: Has
Dash Successfully Overcome Bitcoin’s
Shortcomings, 2017
5: Payments Journal, Dash Now an Easy
Payment Option at 40 Million Merchants
Accepting Visa, 2017
6: Joon Ian Wong, China’s Bitmain
dominates bitcoin mining. Now it wants
to cash in on artificial intelligence, 2017
7: Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A Peer-toPeer Electronic Cash System, 2008
8: Michiel van Beirendonck, Louis-Charles
Trudeau, Pascal Giard, and Alexios
Balatsoukas-Stimming, A Lyra2 FPGA Core
for Lyra2REv2-BasedCryptocurrencie,
2018
9: Luke Parker, The Decline in Bitcoin Full
Nodes, 2015
10: John (JD) Douceur, The Sybil Attack,
2002

