Slava Gomzin, Dan Itkis
Version 1.2
December 2017
DRAFT

Decentralized, Real-time Credit, Debit, and
Crypto Payment Processing Blockchain

Abstract
GRAFT is a global, open-sourced, blockchain-based, decentralized
payment gateway and processing platform that anyone can use. Any
buyer and merchant can use GRAFT in a completely decentralized and
inexpensive way. The GRAFT ecosystem is open, so anyone can
participate by maintaining GRAFT blockchain and implementing network
services.
GRAFT employs payment processing protocols and flows similar to how
traditional electronic payment systems — such as credit, debit, and
prepaid cards — are processed, which are already familiar to and trusted
by millions of users and merchants around the world. This approach
enables easier and faster adoption of GRAFT as a mainstream payment
platform, while eliminating the need in centralized intermediaries
(payment gateways and processors) currently required to facilitate
transactions between buyers and merchants.

Background
Bitcoin[1] was created as an “online cash” - asecure but relatively slow
settlement system which was unable to replace payment cards online or

compete with both plastic cards and paper cash in brick-and-mortar
stores (Figure 1).

Figure 1: ​Bitcoin
Intermediary

Transaction

Processing

without

Centralized

Even though some existing cryptocurrencies and cryptographic tokens[2]
have improved confirmation times, they are still unable to process
essential transactions types such as authorization and completion, which
we believe makes their adoption by retail, hospitality, and convenience
store industries impossible without using intermediaries - payment
processors and gateways[3] - who fill the gap (Figure 2). However, the
very existence of payment processors, which aretypically a centralized
commercial organization regulated by government and controlled by
shareholders, as an element of cryptographic payment transaction,
contradicts some fundamental principles of cryptocurrencies and
cryptographic tokens: decentralization, privacy, and independence.

Figure 2: ​Processing Bitcoin Transaction by Centralized Intermediary
Most merchants are unable to accept cryptocurrencies without utilizing a
third-party payment processor due to unique way blockchain networks
process transactions., That process is conceptually different from
traditional electronic payment systems. Despite some flaws of the
traditional electronic payment systems face, technologies developed
around them that have accumulated enormous amounts of merchant
experience and user trust. Those technologies include real-time
authorization protocols and smart cards.
There are several major differences between the ways traditional and
cryptographic payment systems handle transactions, which in most cases
make cryptographic payment systems less attractive for merchants
and/or consumers. Here is the list of some of the technical limitations
and business flaws of the existing cryptographic payment systems
comparing to traditional electronic payments systems:

Lack of Essential Transaction Types
Unsuitable Payment Flows
Long Confirmation Times
Unbalanced and Unpredictable Transaction Fees
Inability to Process Micropayments and Repeating Charges
(Subscriptions)
● Lack of Offline Transactions support
● Low Scalability
● Volatility
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

Incomplete Security
Lack of Privacy Due to Traceability of Blockchain
Lack of Trust between Buyer and Merchant
Questionable Utility
Poor Usability of End-User Interfaces
Lack of Customer Support

By attempting to address those issues, GRAFT’s goal is to create a
platform that finally allows for cryptographic payments to be widely
accepted by mainstream merchants and consumers for the first time
while respecting some of the
the fundamental principles of
cryptocurrencies and cryptographic tokens.

The Value of Decentralized Payment
Processing
Why would a buyer want to start using cryptocurrencies or cryptographic
tokens instead of (or in addition to) plastic cards or PayPal or Apple Pay,
and why would a merchant choose to accept cryptocurrencies or
cryptographic tokens in addition to (or instead of) existing payment
methods? Obviously, if we don’t find the answers to those simple
questions, there is no point in creating this document.
While the answer to the first part of this question may consist of several
elements — as there might be multiple reasons (and combinations of
them) to individuals to keep their money in a form of cryptocurrencies or
cryptographic token— the answer to the second part of this question is
relatively simple. Merchants want to extend their customer base in order
to increase their revenues, and if they identify a significant group of
potential customers who prefer, for any reason, to use cryptocurrencies
or cryptographic tokens, they will start accepting cryptocurrencies or
cryptographic tokens. And GRAFT provides a unique opportunity for
merchants to accept cryptocurrency or cryptographic token payments
directly from their customers, without any middlemen, and with
extremely low fees.
There may be additional value as well. In some cases, merchant might
want to know the real identity of a potential customer in order to
comply with laws and regulations, for example, to make sure the
potential customer is 21 years of age or older in order to legally sell
certain items to the potential customer.

Since GRAFT is a decentralized payment processor, the function of which
being driven by digital utility tokens, it is able to facilitate the full
payment cycle without external cryptocurrencies, cryptographic tokens
or assets involved. However, GRAFT will also support Bitcoin and several
major cryptocurrencies, as well as cryptographic tokens, as additional
choice for buyers and acceptable method of payoff for merchants. This
feature will eliminate the need for merchant to integrate with multiple
(centralized) payment software providers, as well as for user to sign up
for centralized services and learn and maintain multiple wallet apps. It is
important to note that merchants will have to accommodate higher risks
and additional expenses associated with acceptance of alternative
cryptocurrencies and/or cryptographic tokens due to their slower
confirmation times and higher transaction fees.

Terminology
GRAFT
1. Global Real-time Authorizations and Fund Transfers decentralized global open platform for processing real-time
authorizations and settlements of merchant payments and fund
transfers using untraceable blockchain, decentralized API, and
open community of service brokers that support variety of
payment and payout methods including cryptocurrencies,
cryptographic tokens, and traditional credit cards and bank
transfers.
2. A plant that has a twig or bud from another plant attached to it so
they are joined and grow together.[4] GRAFTing is an advanced
technique that botanists, farmers, gardeners, and hobbyists use to
add living tissue from one plant to another. This technique has a
allows for the best traits of different plants to come together to
create something better and more valuable than their original
parts.

Supernode
An independent, always-on server running the combined implementation
of GRAFT blockchain node and GRAFT DAPI node, maintaining the GRAFT
blockchain via block mining, processing of real-time authorization and
settlement DAPI calls between buyers and merchants, and hosting third
party services such as instant cryptocurrency exchange within the GRAFT
network, credit/debit card acceptance, and merchant payouts in local
currency. The Supernodes collectively maintain the network using
GRAFT’s combined Proof of Work/Proof of Stake algorithm.

Authorization Sample
Selected group of trusted supernodes that approve payments in real time
and guarantee that the buyer cannot spend the same money more than
once before the transaction is written into the blockchain.

Relay Supernode
The supernode that facilitates the merchant transaction by
communicating with the merchant POS or/and the buyer’s wallet on one
side, and the rest of the authorization sample supernodes on the other
side.

Service Broker
A GRAFT protocol extension hosted on a supernode or a group of
supernodes and owned by the supernode operator. Service Brokers
implement special additional features that cannot be automatically
executed by fully decentralized network or/and requires special
regulation framework such as PCI DSS[6] or NIST 800-63-3.[7] Examples
of service brokers are credit card payment acceptance broker and bank
payout transfer broker.

Domain
Virtual decentralized independent “merchant account” where merchants
can set up authorization and payout rules and triggers that will have an
affect on transactions for that specific merchant.

GRFT Token
Native cryptographic tokens supported by GRAFT blockchain and used for
real-time payment authorizations, transfers of funds, and settlement
between buyers and merchants

DAPI
Decentralized stateless API implemented by supernodes in order to
support lightweight client apps such as the GRAFT Wallet, GRAFT Point
of Sale, and third party point of sale apps and shopping cards. GRAFT
SDK Source code provided to third party point of sale and wallet
application vendors for facilitating an integration with GRAFT.

GRAFT Wallet
“Lite" desktop, mobile, and browser extension apps that allow making
payments and fund transfers using graftcoins, other major
cryptocurrencies, cryptographic tokens, or credit/debit cards by calling
GRAFT DAPI.

GRAFT Point of Sale
“Lite” desktop and mobile apps that allow merchants to accept
payments in graftcoins, bitcoins, altcoins, or credit/debit cards; issuing
and redeeming gift certificates, loyalty reward points, and store credits;
configure settlement payouts in graftcoins, bitcoins, altcoins, or local
fiat currencies.

Transaction Fees
Why is it necessary to have a transaction fee in the first place? After all,
there is no commercial enterprise behind the blockchain, so why would
users need to pay fees, who does collect them, and how much should
they charge?

To Fee or Not to Fee
Multiple powerful nodes (servers) distributed throughout the world are
required in order to support secure and highly available cryptocurrency
and cryptographic token networks. So who is going to maintain these
servers, and what's the motivation and incentive for maintaining the
blockchain node? In Bitcoin, other cryptocurrency networks, and
cryptographic token networks, the funding is achieved through mining
and transaction fees - the node owners make money on mining new coins
from each block as well as getting fees for each transaction.
The mining has another purpose: constant and steady injection of new
coins into the system to keep up the liquidity with the growing demand
for extra coins as adoption widens and usage increases. As the system
gets traction, the node operators will receive more revenue from
transaction fees, so the bonus for mining can be gradually reduced with
each new block to limit the overall supply.
In ideal world, cryptocurrencies or cryptographic tokens would be
available for everyone and free of charge. In fact, there are networks
that promise free transactions.[8] In other networks, including Bitcoin,
the fees are used to prioritize transactions and “resolve” the scalability
problem.
In GRAFT network, however, the fee is used for two reasons. First, to
avoid network abuse and associated performance and blockchain size
issues. For example, using the real network for testing. If a transaction is
completely free, one can move the same amount between two accounts
indefinitely. Second, to become the only incentive for node operators
once the mining bonus becomes too small.

Charging the Wrong Guy
The problem with Bitcoin’s fees and cryptographic tokens’ fees is that
they charge the wrong side of the transaction. It’s even worse than
traditional card payments because, unlike plastic card payments, both
buyer and merchant pay fees for a cryptocurrency or cryptographic
token transaction: the buyer pays to the cryptocurrency or cryptographic
token network, while the merchant pays to the payment processor.[9]
The (average/layman) payer is often confused by the process which looks
more like gambling, without clear explanation of the fee schedule,
which does not make cryptocurrency or cryptographic token payments
very attractive.

Micropayments: How Do I Pay with Crypto for a
Cup of Coffee?
Another problem currently experienced by Bitcoin is its inability to
handle micropayments due to high transaction fees.[10] GRAFT resolves
this problem by introducing a unique approach to transaction fees.

GRAFT Transaction Fees
GRAFT In GRAFT’s ecosystem, the payer pays not fees. All fees are
borne by the receiver (merchant or payee). GRAFT makes
micropayments accessible by setting very low (as compared to credit
cards[11] and online payment processors,[12] cryptocurrencies[13], and
other cryptographic tokens) fees, but without a fixed fee component
(Table 1).
Table 1​: GRAFT Network Transaction Fees

Micropayments (less than
10 GRFTT)

Regular Payments (more than 10 GRFTT)
1% of log10 (significantly less than 0.1% as
transaction amount grows)

0.1%

The logarithmic fee schedule provides for an incentive for processing less
transactions with small amounts (i.e. combining multiple transactions
together whenever possible) while keeping low transaction fees for large
transaction amounts (Table 2).
Table 2:​ Examples of GRAFT Network Transaction Fees
Transaction amount

Transaction Fee Amount

Effective Transaction
Fee

0.01 GRFTT

0.00001 GRFTT

0.1%

1 GRFTT

0.001 GRFTT

0.1%

10 GRFTT

0.01 GRFTT

0.1%

50 GRFTT

0.01699 GRFTT

0.03398%

100 GRFTT

0.02 GRFTT

0.02%

1,000 GRFTT

0.03 GRFTT

0.003%

1,000,000 GRFTT

0.06 GRFTT

0.000006%

Free Funds Transfers: Authenticated
Transactions
Many payment networks, such as ACH or PayPal, provide free transfers
between user accounts.In order to be able to compete with traditional
payment networks, GRAFT provides limited free transfers between user
wallets.
Cryptocurrency networks usually cannot "afford" free transactions for
three major reasons:
● Lack of incentive for miners
● Threat of DOS attacks
● Uncontrolled growth of blockchain
GRAFT resolves the first problem — lack of incentive for miners — by
theseparation between payment and transfer, so supernodes (miners)
receive transaction fees for instant payments which constitute the
majority of all transactions, while free transfers are processed in the
background with lower priority.
The second problem — DOS threats — is resolved by voluntary user
identification and authentication. Of course, there are no “free
lunches”, so the users will "pay" by providing their identity to the
network to ensure the reasonable use (by limiting the number and
frequency of free transfers per user) and thus prevent network abuse.
Using zero knowledge proof authentication technology will allow users to
prove their identity without compromising their privacy.
The last problem — uncontrolled block size growth — is addressed
through several solutions, including: small block interval, unlimited

block size, and standard restricted transaction size for particular
transaction types, such as free transfer. In addition, one of the sides of
the free transfer must be verified by having conducted “commercial”
payment transaction types in the past.

Additional Third Party Service Broker Fees
When accepting different payment methods such as bitcoins, altcoins,
credit/debit cards, or processing merchant payouts in different
currencies such as bitcoins, altcoins, or local fiat currency, additional
payment broker and/or payout broker fees may be applied. These are
not hidden fees as they are published by the brokers. We expect those
fees are will becharged to the merchant at the time of transaction
settlement (payout), instead of any setup, upfront, or periodic fees.

Customer Fees
Some cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin require customers to add
transaction fees in order to get fast confirmations. Such fees are
configured by customer wallet application and paid by customer. Most
Bitcoin users are already accustomed to such fees.

Paying Fees Using Margin Balances
In some cases, transaction fees can be charged using special “margin”
balances provided by GRAFT network itself and/or margin brokers.
Examples of such transactions are “Issue and Redeem” transactions
related to gift certificates, loyalty rewards, and store credit processing.
This is done in order to allow merchant transaction processing even if
the merchant does not have enough balance on GRAFT account yet.

Transaction Processing
The world’s moving towards “thin” devices. People around the world use
more smartphones and tablets and less workstations and laptops.
Therefore, decentralized cryptographic payment systems will rely solely

on small individual nodes hosted on personal computers but rather willbe
based on dedicated powerful supernodes hosted by professionals, with
thin clients apps connected to a authorization sample - a group of
supernodes randomly selected by special fraud-prevention algorithm via DAPI calls.

Confirmation Time Problem: Introducing Real
Time Authorizations
Long confirmation times[14] (from several minutes to several hours,
depending on transaction fee[15]) is one of the main reasons for low
adoption of cryptocurrencies and cryptographic tokens in retail and
hospitality sectors. Customers dislike long wait times and, as a result,
merchants demand almost-instant payment processing. Unlike some
other cryptocurrency networks that tried to resolve this problem by
introducing special add-on systems or transaction types[16], GRAFT
processes all its transactions in “real time” (we expect __% of
transactions to complete in less than 3 seconds). Critically, GRAFT
achieves this real time payment without charging the customer an extra
fee. (see Figure 3).

Figure 3:​ Simplified GRAFT Payment Flow
This is achieved by using a consensus of always-on trusted supernodes
("authorization sample") with ability to perform a distributed instant

authorization lock on buyer's account and communicate response back to
the client, typically within milliseconds. The supernodes also maintain
the GRAFT blockchain so no transactions can be authorized “off chain”.

Supernodes
All transactions are processed by the network of always-on GRAFT
network nodes -- supernodes -- in real time. Transaction fees are paid by
the receiver (merchant) to the supernodes participating in authorization
sample and (optional) service brokers participating in transaction
processing. Supernodes are responsible for both settlement (block
mining) and real-time transaction approvals. The owners of the nodes
are responsible for transactions they process. Such responsibility is
achieved by financial interest: mining rewards and transaction fees.

DAPI
Unlike regular APIs, which are hosted at a server or server farm, DAPIs
does not have a single address, as it is running on multiple supernodes.
Any single node can serve the DAPI call anytime. The DAPI calls are
stateless which means that the supernodes do not maintain any
permanent session with the client, and all the data necessary for
processing is instantly distributed and available on all the nodes. The
client app which consumes DAPI maintains a list of supernodes it
communicates with, which is a relatively small group of addresses
selected from the authorization sample. However, the client app is free
to select a particular trusted supernode and “stick” with it. For
example, merchant point-of-saleor wallet users can decide to host their
own supernode which they trust. Even such a “private” supernode may
not be granted a right to participate in authorization sample due to
resource limitations (see Authorization Sample Selection Algorithm
section below), but they can provide an extra layer of privacy of their
owners.

Real Time Approvals by an Authorization Sample
There are cryptocurrencies with block (settlement) intervals of less than
2 minutes. However, reducing that interval still does not make those
transactions “real-time” . The GRAFT supernode scheme resolves this
problem by utilizing authorization samples, when approvals are issued in

real time by the selected group of trusted supernodes. We believe this
structure guarantees that the buyer cannot spend the same money more
than once until the transaction is settled (written into the blockchain).
The settlement (mining) is performed by the "underlying" part of the
supernode code, typically within two minutes.
Unlike most cryptographic payment systems, and similar to traditional
electronic payment systems, each payment made on the GRAFT network
is divided into two phases: authorization and settlement. Like in
traditional payment world, authorization happens in real time , while
settlement is performed later on, usually within two minutes (compared
to several hours and even days in traditional payment networks).

Authorization Account Lock
A “Key image” is the mechanism used by CryptoNote in order to validate
new transactions and prevent double spending without compromising the
privacy of the sender. A key image is unique "fingerprint" that represents
the buyer's spending address and amount without disclosing any details
about the buyer or the amount. The nature of key image is that it can be
used only once, so if someone is trying to use the same key image more
than once, this is the signal of double spending attempt. By providing
the unique key image for upcomings transaction to the network of
supernodes, the buyer's wallet temporarily "locks" its spending "account",
so no other transaction with the same key image (i.e. from the same
account) can happen until the locked transaction is settled or the lock is
removed. If the buyer will try to finalize the transaction with the key
image different from the one used in the original lock, such transaction
will be also rejected by the supernodes.
On the other hand, the key image does not contain any information
about the buyer or buyer’s wallet, which provides security, anonymity,
and untraceability. In addition, any traces of communication between
the buyer (wallet app), the merchant (point of sale app), and the
supernodes (selected relay and sample supernodes) during authorization
phase are removed once transaction is settled (written into the
blockchain and confirmed by 10 blocks).

Supernode Levels
A GRAFT node is called “supernode” because it performs more functions
than “traditional” blockchain network nodes.There are increased
requirements for supernode owners. While GRAFT is open and
decentralized network which allows anyone to run a supernode, there
are different levels of supernodes, with different conditions and rewards
associated with each level.
Proxy Supernode is the “entry level” – anyone can install the supernode
software and host proxy supernode. The only requirement is public IP
address, but this can be achieved even with home network. Proxy
supernode does not mine or provide services, but it can be useful for
several purposes; for example, as a trusted relay for those who have
highest privacy requirements, so they can host their own “wallet
server”, or for large merchants as a “store server” for even faster
transaction processing.
Mining Supernode can generate revenue for the supernode owner by
earning block rewards. The only requirement GRAFT requires of Mining
Supernodes (in addition to public IP) is a higher computing power
required for PoW mining.
Full Supernode is both miner and service provider. It cannot perform its
real time authorization functions or service brokerage (hosting credit
card acceptance service, for example) without mining. In addition,
performance of full supernode functions requires a stake – collateral
balance associated with the supernode address. Thus, a full supernode
earns its elevated trust by a combined proof of work / proof of stake
algorithm. A mining supernode can mine without a stake but it will not
be able to provide services, i.e. it will not be able to earn transaction
and service fees. Note that a GRAFT miner does not receive transaction
or service fees, only block rewards. Transaction and service fees are only
paid to a full supernode which mines, has a stake, issues real time
approvals, and hosts network service brokers.

Authorization Sample Selection
In order to perform real time authorizations, the GRAFT network relies
on the authorization sample: a group of selected trusted supernodes
which will “represent” the network and validate transactions, preventing
double-spending, and signing the instant approval before a transaction is
“confirmed” on the GRAFT blockchain (i.e. before it’s added to the
block and the block is added to the blockchain).
The authorization sample consists of eight supernodes randomly selected
from supernodes that solved the last 1440 blocks starting ten blocks
below the then-current block height. If the same supernode has solved
more than one block within the last eight blocks (starting from ten minus
the then-current block height) or the selected node went offline, the list
is automatically extended and another supernode from the “bottom” of
the list is added to the sample. Another requirement for authorization
sample participation is proof of stake: the supernode owner must
maintain a collateral balance in an account associated with the
supernode. The minimum required balance is starting from 500 GRFTT
and recalculated dynamically with every block and increasing with each
block proportionally to the growing GRFTT supply.
This algorithm allows the most active supernodes, which constantly
prove their loyalty to the network through successful mining, to also be
trusted to perform the real time authorizations, while still following
some degree of randomization provided by the Proof of Work algorithm.
These supernodes also are rewarded by transaction fee for each
successful real time authorization. New supernodes “earn” their chance
to participate in the transaction processing by adding more power and
solving next block (which is generated on average every two minutes).
The supernodes that perform successful mining but fail to process
real-time authorization requests will be excluded by the network from
the full supernode list (i.e. the blocks they solve will not be accepted by
the network for the period of 720 blocks).
When new transaction request is initiated by the merchant point of sale,
it is assigned the current block height which defines the authorization
sample. The height can be incremented while transaction is still in
progress, but it does not change the sample height that was initially

assigned to the transaction request. The merchant relay supernode that
initially formats the transaction request selects the sample supernodes,
but this selection is validated by each member of the sample plus the
wallet’s relay.
In order to speed up the authorization process, the merchant point of
sale app can instruct the authorization sample supernodes to ignore the
responses from the rest of the authorization sample as soon as it
receives more than 50% of the approved responses from “fastest”
supernodes and zero rejected responses; however, this mode will
increase the risk of fraud, which can be acceptable in specific cases of
micropayments when transaction processing speed requirements are
extremely important.

Proxy Supernodes
Any supernode from the authorization sample can be also a proxy
supernode - the relay that facilitates the merchant transaction by
communicating with the merchant point of sale or/and the buyer’s
wallet on one side, and the rest of the authorization sample supernodes
on the other side. The proxy supernode can be selected randomly by the
point of sale or wallet from the current authorization sample linked to
the transaction. The point of sale or wallet can also select any
supernode which is not a part of authorization sample. In fact, a point of
sale or wallet can host their own proxy supernodes if they are seeking an
extra layer of security and privacy; such proxies can be also upgraded to
mining or even full supernodes and earn an income from mining and
transaction processing. However, the proxy supernodes do not get any
rewards or fees if they are not included in the authorization sample.

Supernode Rewards
Each supernode in the authorization sample receives a share of
transaction fee for each transaction it signs (approves). Each supernode
in the sample receives 1 / n of the transaction fee, where n is the
number of supernodes in the authorization sample. The fee is paid by
the recipient (merchant).
The block mining reward is paid to the supernode that solved the new
block. The block reward is gradually reduced with each new block using

the following formula: (M - A) * 2​-19 * 10​-12​, where A = current circulation,
M = total supply (2​64 − 1) in atomic units (10​-12​). The idea behind this is
that in the future there will be more transactions which will ensure the
sustainable income for supernodes from transaction fees.

Scalability
The scalability of a given paymentGRAFTnetwork is the ability to process
a large number of transactions simultaneously without degradation of
performance. Scalability of the payment network is usually measured in
tps (transactions per second). For example, Visa claims its authorization
network is capable to process 56,000 tps,[17] while the Bitcoin network
is restricted to a sustained rate of only 7 tps.[18]
Some of the measures that the GRAFT network uses achieve higher
scalability are decreasing the block creation interval to two minutes and
removing the size limit of the block, so that transactions blocks are
created more often, and each block can accommodate more
transactions. Such measures are not unique and are similarly
implemented by other cryptocurrencies and cryptographic tokens.[19]
GRAFT, however, is maintained by always-on high performance
supernodes which validate and authorize transactions in real time.
Therefore, each supernode not only has a most recent copy of full
blockchain but also keeps a list of all pending authorization requests and
completed transactions until they are added to the blockchain. Such
architecture allows absorbing large spikes of requests associated (for
example, such as seasonal, events driven, and other changes in buyers
and merchants activities).

Offline Transaction Approvals
People familiar with payment card processing know that sometimes
transaction can be approved by merchant without getting simultaneous
approval from the bank. This is called offline or local approval, or offline
authorization, or sometimes S&F ("store and forward") as such offline
authorization is forwarded to the server once the network is back online.
Cryptographic payments, however, generally assume that the network is
available 24/7, and there are no downtimes. However, this assumption

is not always true. In some situations, merchants take a risk and approve
transactions locally because the risk of single chargeback is lower than
the risk of losing multiple customers. Usually, there is a total limit
amount for local authorization. After the system reaches this limit (the
maximum risk), it stops issuing local approvals until the network is up
again. But in case of short downtime, local authorization can go
unnoticed to both cashiers and buyers.
GRAFT merchant point of sale app and single relay supernode will be
able to process offline cryptographic transactions based on the same
principle, if they cannot communicate to the authorization sample and
get consensus, and if the merchant is ready to assume such a risk. The
decision about offline approval will be also based on buyer’s and
supernode’s reputation scores.

Transaction Types and Payment Flows
GRAFT introduces the following transaction types and flows in order to
facilitate merchant transactions and support existing payment and point
of sale applications.

Authorize
Authorize is used when the exact final amount of transaction is unknown
at the time of the sale initiation. Examples are pay at the pump at gas
station, car rental check-in, hotel room reservation/check in, or
restaurant pay at the table.
This is analogue to debit card authorization. An authorize transaction
type is initiated by the merchant and confirmed by the payer. The
payer’s account is temporarily “locked” for the amount and duration
(number of blocks) requested by payee and confirmed by the payer, or
until the amount is confirmed by subsequent “Complete” transaction.
The authorization lock can be also released by Cancel transaction issued
by payee before the expiration. The funds are automatically released
back to the payer by the network after the expiration date/time if the
payee did not claim them by sending Complete transaction.

PreAuth
This is similar to long-term Authorize but the difference is that the payer
does not guarantee that the funds will be available at the time of
Completion. PreAuth is a long-term contract between the payer and the
payee. However, unlike Authorize, which cannot be cancelled by the
payee, PreAuth can be cancelled at any time by moving funds from the
account associated with pre-authorized transaction.
PreAuth is suitable for long-term payment arrangements such as monthly
service subscription or daily hotel room billing. The payee specifies (and
the payer confirms) the maximum amount of single charge, the total
number of charges, and the minimum interval between the charges.

Complete
Finalize the payment initiated by Authorize or PreAuth transactions.
Actual amount of Complete can be less than previously authorized
amount; there might be multiple Completions but the total amount will
not exceed the amount of Authorize.
Complete is used after previously authorized transaction is finalized and
the exact amount is known. For example, pay at the pump after the
fueling is complete, car rental check out, hotel check out, or restaurant
payment with tips added.

Sale
Sale is Authorize/Complete processed sequentially and automatically by
the network as a single transaction. Sale is typical merchant transaction
in online or brick and mortar store.

Transfer
Money transfer between GRAFT accounts. The same as Sale but initiated
by the Sender, without Receiver consent. Can be used for peer-to-peer
payments, exchanges, and transfers between different accounts.

Cancel
Cancels Authorize, releases the authorized funds (removes the account
lock).

Issue
Activates GRAFT prepaid card, gift certificate, loyalty points, store
credit, or discount coupon.

Redeem
Payment using prepaid card, gift certificate, loyalty points, store credit,
or discount coupon previously issued by GRAFT.

Exchange
Exchange funds between graftcoins and other major cryptocurrencies,
cryptographic tokens, and local fiat currencies using the best offer from
supernodes.

Schedule
Schedules a transaction to occur at a later time/date. Requires
additional acknowledgement from the user.

Escrow
Escrows the funds, attaching an event trigger when the funds will be
released.

Refund
Refund transaction returns the funds referenced by the transaction
pointer. Requires RMA authorization from the seller.

Processing Transactions with GRFT Tokens as a
Payment Method
Unlike Bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies, and cryptographic tokens, and
similar to payment cards, payment transaction requests are formatted
and issued by the recipient (merchant), with only exception for Transfer
and Exchange which are initiated by the sender (i.e. anyone who wants
to move funds between GRAFT accounts). Unlike credit and debit cards,
however, payment requests are explicitly confirmed by the buyer who is
prompted by the GRAFT Wallet app before it digitally signs the
transaction and sends it to the network. The only exception is the
Redeem function, using a paper or plastic gift certificate or coupon
which can be scanned by the merchant payment app if the customer
does not want to use mobile app or does not have GRAFT account at all.

Processing Transactions with Alternative
Payment Methods
In order to provide the best user experience for buyers and better
conversion rates to merchants, a GRAFT payment transaction can take
various convertible cryptocurrencies, cryptographic tokens, or local fiat
currencies in a form of credit/debit card as an input through the buyer’s
GRAFT Wallet app. Exchange fees, bank fees, and credit/debit card
processing fees (charged from merchant in graftcoins) maybe applied
accordingly in addition to standard GRAFT transaction fees. We expect
those fees will be borne by the payee, and will invisible for the payer as
the method of payment will not affect the sale price. Automatic instant
conversion will help adopt GRAFT payments by mainstream users who
are not familiar enough with cryptocurrency and cryptographic token
ecosystems and still feel more comfortable with traditional method of
payment, but seek better security, privacy, and full anonymity of their
transactions.
If buyer decides to pay with alternative cryptocurrency, cryptographic
tokens, or credit/debit card, GRAFT network will automatically
exchange other cryptocurrency, cryptographic tokens, or convert credit
card payment in local fiat currency into GRFT tokens in real time as a
part of the transaction processing using service brokers. The service

brokers, running on GRAFT supernodes and maintained by the supernode
owners, are responsible for executing the exchange deals, charging the
buyers, and executing payouts to merchants. If the buyer chooses
alternative cryptocurrency, cryptographic tokens, or credit card as a
method of payment, the supernode sample automatically selects the
best offer from all service brokers based on previous merchant selections
and combination of the better exchange rate and higher reputation
score.
The supernode owner can provide currency exchange or/and
credit/debit card payment as an additional service in a form of service
broker. The service broker is responsible for maintaining security and
necessary compliance with exchange and payment card processing
regulations, including PCI DSS compliance, anti-money laundering
regulations, etc.

Service Brokers
If customer pays in graftcoins, and merchant wants to get paid in
graftcoins, the funds will be automatically and instantly debited from
buyer account and deposited to merchant account by GRAFT network.
However, if the customer wants to pay using different payment method,
or/and the merchant wants to be paid in different currency, the GRAFT
network will have to use special mechanism.
In order to facilitate elements of payment processing that cannot be
decentralized but are still highly demanded by consumers and
merchants, the GRAFT plans on introducing a concept of service broker.
Whenever the GRAFT network itself cannot process particular operation
in fully decentralized way, it will delegate such an operation to the
network of service brokers. Merchants can choose a single (for example,
highly trusted or least expensive) service broker, or a group of brokers.
Supernodes facilitate the hosting of service brokers. In fact, the
supernode owners may become a service broker. While supernodes must
implement both mining and real-time authorization functions, they don't
have to implement any broker functions by default.
In addition to adding implementation modules to supernodes, Service
Brokers may modify the client app source code, or even create their own

applications following GRAFT protocol. These are the types of service
brokers:
●
●
●
●
●
●

Accept Broker
Payoff Broker
Top Up Broker
Margin Broker
Escrow Broker
Identity Verification Broker

Accept Broker ​enables accepting payment methods different from
native GRFT Tokens and immediately converts the payment amount into
GRFT Tokens and deposits them into merchant account. Accept Broker
acts in real time and becomes a part of transaction between buyer and
merchant. Examples of accept broker:
●
●
●
●

Bitcoin accept broker
Ether accept broker
Credit Card accept broker
Apple Pay accept broker

Payout Broker enables withdrawal from GRAFT merchant account in
bitcoins, altcoins, or local fiat currency. Payoff can be initiated manually
or automatically. Examples of payout broker:
● Bank transfer payout broker
● PayPal payout broker
● Bitcoin payout broker
Top Up Broker enables wallet top up (exchanging bitcoin, altcoins or
local fiat currency to graftcoins). Examples:
● Credit card top up Broker
● Bitcoin top up Broker
● ACH top up Broker
Margin Broker provides a temporary balance to merchant for paying
processing fees for transactions that do not have financial inputs such as
gift certificate redemption. The margin balance is returned
automatically as soon as merchant receives proceeds from next financial
transaction.

Merchant Payouts
A merchant can decide to receive its proceeds from transactions in other
cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, cryptographic tokens, or local fiat
currency. In this case, the payment currency of the transaction will be
processed by service broker, as part of the same transaction, or later,
depending on merchant settings. This ensures that the sale will pay the
merchant the exact local currency price less applicable fees. The
supernode sample automatically selects the best offer from all service
brokers based on combination of the merchant selections, better
exchange rate, and higher reputation score.
There are several payout options: graftcoins, original cryptocurrency,
other cryptocurrency, cryptographic tokens, or local fiat currency (Table
3). For each of these options, there are payout broker services available
on GRAFT. When the merchant selects the methods of payment they
want to accept and the payout method, the GRAFT Point of Sale
application will prompt with all available broker services options depending on merchant identity and location attributes - so the
merchant can sign up for all desirable broker services. If more than one
payout broker service available for the same type of exchange and
selected by merchant, the GRAFT Point of Sale app will automatically
select the best offer during the transaction execution.
Table 3: Examples of Variety of Accepted methods of Payments and
Payoffs
Payment

Payout

method

method

selected by

selected by

customer

merchant

graftcoins

Gift
Certificate,

graftcoins

N/A

Accept Broker

Payout Broker

None

None

(GRAFT

(GRAFT

network)

network)

None

N/A

(GRAFT

network)

Broker

(Margin
might

Loyalty

be needed to

Rewards,

cover

Additional
Fees

None

None

Store

Credit

transaction

redemption

graftcoins

fee)

USD

None

(GRAFT

network)

Bank Transfer

Payout Broker

Payout Broker,

fee

PayPal Payout
Broker

graftcoins

bitcoins

bitcoins

graftcoins

None

(GRAFT

Bitcoin Payout

Bitcoin Payout

network)

Broker

Broker fee

Bitcoin Accept

None

Broker

network)

(GRAFT

Bitcoin Broker
fee,

Bitcoin

transaction fee
(paid

by

customer)

bitcoins

bitcoins

Bitcoin Accept

Bitcoin Payout

Bitcoin Accept

Broker

Broker

Broker

fee,

Bitcoin Payout
Broker

fee,

Bitcoin
transaction fee
(paid

by

customer)

bitcoins

Credit card

USD

grafts

Bitcoin Accept

Bank Transfer

Bitcoin Accept

Broker

Payout Broker,

Broker

PayPal Payout

Payout Broker

Broker

fee

Credit

Card

Accept broker

None

(GRAFT

network)

Credit

fee,

Card

Accept broker
fee

Credit card

bitcoins

Credit

Card

Accept broker

Bitcoin Payout

Credit

Broker

Accept broker
fee,

Card
Bitcoin

Payout Broker
fee,

Bitcoin

transaction
fees (paid by
customer)

Credit card

USD

Credit

Card

Accept broker

Bank Transfer

Credit

Card

Payout Broker,

Accept broker

PayPal Payout

fee, Bank or

Broker

PayPal payout
broker fee

Open Loop and Closed Loop Products: Gift
Certificates, Loyalty Rewards, and Store Credits
GRAFT will allow merchants to create and use their own open loop and
closed loop[20] products: gift certificates, loyalty rewards, or store
credit program in minutes, without any initial investments, fees, or
registration with any centralized authority. Merchants will be able to sell
and accept gift certificates on their website or in brick-and-mortar store
for local currency, other cryptocurrency, , cryptographic tokens, or
graftcoins. Gift certificates will be available in a form of electronic
certificate on mobile wallet app, sent by email, printed on paper, or as a
physical plastic card (provided by GRAFT foundation or third parties).
Using unique GRAFT flexible identity system, merchant can be compliant
with regulations around gift certificates.
All GRAFT transactions, including issuing and redemption of gift
certificates, loyalty points, and store credits are processed in real time
using standard API, which can be easily integrated into existing point of
sale applications. Customers can buy gift certificates from various
merchants and marketplaces, online and in store, and pay in local fiat
currency, cryptocurrency, or cryptographic tokens. The gift certificate
or store credit value in local fiat currency is guaranteed by the issuing
merchant and by the network, so they will never lose its initial nominal

value. Customer can redeem gift certificates at the issuing merchant
store by its nominal local currency value or sell it anytime on
marketplace for local fiat currency, cryptocurrency or cryptographic
tokens using its current market value.

Merchant (Domain) Tokens
In addition to fast and inexpensive transactions, merchants place high
value on customer loyalty and branding. This functionality will be
enabled by the token layer of the GRAFT currency. The token represents
domain (merchant) specific GRAFT use, and offers smart contract backed
functionality like loyalty point accumulation and use, reward points, sale
discounts, spending discounts, competitor discounts, coupons, store
credit, etc.
A coffee shop chain, for example, can create a merchant token and
attach promotion rules that would provide a patron ability to get
discounts on iced drinks at given time of the day, it would tally the
purchases with the establishment and offer rewards based on activity or
non-activity.
Finally, GRAFT Domain Tokens would provide a very efficient mechanism
for couponing by allowing the merchants to open up the coupon creation
and assignment rules within their domain network.

Decentralized Crowdfunded Credit Cards
Decentralized crowdfunded credit card eco-system consists of credit
consumers (cardholders, buyers), credit providers, identity providers,
and merchants (sellers). GRAFT network facilitates the communication
and transactions between the parties and enforces the common rules to
minimize the risk of fraud.
The GRAFT network connects potential credit consumers with credit
providers who offer a credit to consumer. Anyone with GRAFT wallet
(free app) can become a credit consumer. Anyone with GRAFT wallet
and positive balance can become a credit provider. Anyone with GRAFT
point of sale (free app), or third party point of sale integrated with
GRAFT SDK, can become a merchant. The identity provider is
implemented as a service broker which runs as a “plugin” on GRAFT
network. The identity provider uses an open API which help maintain the
open and decentralized character of the entire eco-system.

Credit providers set their requirements of minimal identity necessary to
receive the credit, maximum credit limit, overall maximum credit limit
(from multiple providers), credit rate, and minimum payment amount
and frequency. Credit consumer can get credit from multiple credit
providers as long as the current state of their account fits the provider
requirements. Identity providers validate and confirm the identity
elements provided by the consumer to remove the burden of identity
validation from credit providers and provide some degree of anonymity
and privacy to cardholder. Thus, identity providers know the real
identity of the consumer and therefore can maintain their long term
reputation score independently from the network or credit providers.
Credit providers receive a share of transaction fee from each payment
that is processes using their credit.
Credit consumer is assigned a reputation score which is dynamically
calculated based on consumer history and level of identity provided by
the cardholder and validated by the identity providers. The initial score,
before any identity validated or any history data is collected, is set to 0.
The more identity elements are provided and validated (for example,
driver license, biometrics, social security number), the higher is initial
score, which means the more credit can be given to the cardholder.
Positive repayment history elevates the reputation score respectively.
Merchants are just recipients of transaction with credit consumer,
isolated from the relationship between the cardholders, credit providers,
and identity providers, which completely eliminates their risk of fraud.
Credit providers assume all potential fraud risk and expenses, which is
compensated by their share of transaction processing fees and credit
rates fees. However, merchants can participate in the process by
offering incentives such as transaction cashback, or even as credit
providers.

Security
As recent mega data breaches in retail and hospitality industries show,
security is very important element of any payment ecosystem. The
highest level of security can be achieved if security is part of the system
design rather than “add-on” created after implementation is done.
Security of payment system is not just information security but it should

include financial security as well. In addition to standard security
features inherited from its predecessors, GRAFT plans to implement
several enhancements from which both buyers and merchants benefit.

Availability
The distributed network of “always-on” supernodes ensures overall
availability of the network. The client apps communicate with multiple
supernodes simultaneously in order to get the consensus required for
authorization. If one of the sample supernodes is down it is
automatically replaced by another one from the authorization sample
candidate list which contains virtually endless number of candidates.

Identity Management
Relying on the wallets to do user management opens up a big security
risk as wallets are typically free to implement their own security
measures and can be compromised individually. In order to protect the
network and ensure integrity of user identities, GRAFT will implement a
distributed identity provider service (embedded into supernode),
available to the wallets as an OpenID Connect oAuth2 API call.
As such, regardless of wallet implementation, user verification and
authentication will be carried out by the GRAFT network, which will
prevent compromised user identities, spoofing, replays, and
man-in-the-middle attacks.

Identification, Authentication, and Authorization
The authentication / authorization methods of existing crytocurrencies
have been in the purview of the user application such as wallet, and
have largely been an afterthought. In context of financial transactions
between buyers and sellers, however, where some degree of trust has to
be established between the parties, regulations and compliances have to
be dealt with, and a recourse has to be provided, a good system for
authentication /authorization becomes critical.

Identity Proofing
Identity proofing is a challenging topic as it carries both regulatory and
privacy considerations. Also effective identity proofing is not trivial.
To understand the need for identity proofing, consider a merchant that
might request strong level of identity proofing to make sure the buyer is
eligible to purchase prescribed medications, and superior level of
identity proofing to purchase arms (as defined by NIST Special
Publication 800-63A in the US ). Conversely, buyers purchasing goods on
an after-market, might want to protect themselves from buying stolen
goods by requesting that the merchant provide higher level of identity
proofing.
GRAFT expects the client applications to comply with identity
verification standards relevant to the specific laws of each jurisdiction’s
laws. Supernodes will provide resources for machine-based identity
verification and fraud detection to assist merchants (and users) with
compliance, ensure integrity of the payment network, and safety of the
transactions. In order to limit user’s exposure when sharing their
complete identity information is undesirable or counter to the regulatory
laws (GDPR for example), GRAFT will facilitate request for and sharing of
the identity attributes, such as person’s age, their address, etc to ensure
compliance with local laws and regulations. We’re also looking to add
more metadata collection to the attribute sharing to enable auxiliary
business logic such as drug interaction checks or loyalty rewards.
GRAFT will allow optional multi-user control, when several users have
access to the same merchant account, and multi-user custodianship,
when two or more users are required in order to unlock some functions
like transfer funds out of the account.

Multi Factor Authentication with Biometrics
GRAFT will implement best-practices, advanced authentication to go
along with the user management service, which will include risk / threat
analytics based on login/usage pattern as well as device and network
characteristics, sophisticated multi-factor based authentication which

will include biometrics, FIDO and other passwordless factors and
techniques to identify the user.
The user ID will be given special attention to avoid “lost key” problem,
but also to ensure ability to reliably ID the user quickly and in variety of
situation. To that end UserID will be comprised of multiple elements
(keys) - some tied to devices and hardware tokens, and some to user
biometrics - that will jointly provide a base for identifying a user via
flexible set of attributes. For example it will be possible to identify the
user by a choice of 2 factors out of available ID elements (face, palm,
iris, hardware token, device, etc). The unused factors will be used as a
pool of factors to verify user’s identity.
The ultimate goal is to make user identification and authentication work
quickly, reliably, in wide variety of situations, on wide variety of
devices; while providing user with choices and that are reflective of user
preferences and limitations.

Figure 4: Mobile Multi-Factor Biometric Authenticator is a Part of GRAFT
Existing Technologies Portfolio

Reputation Score - Illuminate the Darkness
GRAFT takes a risk-based approach to transaction processing. Each
participant in the network is assigned a reputation score, which is
dynamically updated according to new data captured by the system. The
buyers, merchants, and supernodes owners can optionally link their
partial identity to their account in order to disclose and improve their

reputation score. Such a link will will not compromise the untraceability
of transactions.
The reputation score system helps participants in the ecosystem make
informed decisions without compromising their security and privacy. For
example, a merchant can take into account the buyer’s reputation score
when making decision regarding authorization limit before instant
authorization. Similarly, the buyer can review the merchant’s reputation
score before making payment for any goods that cannot be delivered
immediately. Both buyers and merchants can check the reputation score
of the network supernode they communicate with.
The supernodes are in charge of monitoring, calculating, updating, and
validating the reputation scores for buyers, merchants, and other
supernodes. The scores are calculated using special predictive analytics
algorithms which produces easily understandable results on 0-100 scale,
which cannot be used to disclose any information about the number,
amount, time, or nature of transactions.

Volatility
Most merchants want to get paid in their local currency. Merchants use
fiat currency, not bitcoins, other cryptocurrencies, or cryptographic
tokens, to replenish stock, pay their bills, and employees’ salaries. Also,
they may use fiat to pay refunds in case of return. Most merchants
cannot afford high volatility, especially small merchants. GRAFT resolved
the volatility problem by instant, real time transaction settlement,
which minimizes possible loss of value due to volatility. The merchant’s
payment app can automatically adjust the transaction amount to the
current exchange rate, and redeem it to local currency through online
exchange right after transaction completion.

Customer Support, Dispute Resolution, and
Payment Insurance
One of the main showstoppers of cryptocurrency and cryptographic
token adoption by mainstream consumers and merchants is the lack of

the authority and the business owners who could help answer questions
and resolve technical and business issues. Also, it is impossible to “fix” a
wrong cryptocurrency or cryptographic token transaction in case of
human error, fraudulent activity, or technical glitch. Obviously, all these
issues are caused and justified by decentralized, anonymous, and
independent nature of crypto payments. However, the good reasons do
not help resolve the problems. The open source community resolved
those problems by introducing an optional customer support for free
open source products. Linux OS supported by Redhat and MySQL
database supported by Oracle are just two successful examples of
providing commercial-level support to free open source products.
In order to facilitate adoption of GRAFT payment, GRAFT Foundation
provides free customer support and dispute resolution services to GRAFT
account holders. Merchants with high transaction volume can get 24/7
real time support and dispute resolution assistance. GRAFT Foundation
or/and service brokers may insure payments up to equivalent of USD
$100 and compensate customers or merchants for their lost of funds due
to fraud or technical issues.

Privacy
Oftentimes, there is a wrong perception of the need for privacy. In
reality, majority of legitimate buyers don’t mind disclosing their identity
to the merchant, especially, if they benefit from such disclosure, or such
disclosure is necessary to process transaction. Similarly, buyers want to
make sure that the merchant they send payment to is the intended
recipient, and not an impersonator. What neither merchant nor buyer
want is anyone else’s ability to recognize their identities and see all the
details of their transactions by scanning the publicly accessible
blockchain.
Privacy is a delicate subject for cryptocurrencies and the payment
industry in general. Privacy demands range from complete anonymity to
complete transparency, as decided by both the seller and the buyer. The
seller for example may have regulatory compliance requirements to
collect and verify certain identity data, such as age for liquor or
cigarette purchases, or zip code for online merchant’s tax calculations.
The buyer on the other hand may or may not agree to disclose all or
some of the attributes of their identity and should be in a position to do

so. If the seller and the buyer can agree on the identity attributes to be
shared, the transaction can proceed. Furthermore, there’s a
requirement to establish identity attributes authenticity by the
merchant in lots of cases.
We find that the best way to approach this problem is using a system of
identity verification and identity attribute sharing that is consistent with
Digital Identity guidelines set out by government regulators focused on
privacy enhancement (i.e. NIST 800-63 in the US or GDPR in EU) standards which calls for differentiated identity proofing and
authentication.
GRAFT implements digital identity profile which is attached to GRAFT
wallet, with ability to share the data from the digital identity with the
counter-party incrementally and based on user permissions at the time
of the transaction. These permissions include sharing certain attributes
(such as age, home location, address, name, etc..) selectively and per
transaction.
GRAFT implements CryptoNote[21] as an underlying transaction
recording protocol which provides a high degree of privacy comparing to
Bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies, and cryptographic tokens by hiding
information about sender and receiver.

User Applications
All GRAFT user apps are “light” clients that do not store the blockchain
or process any transactions. The user apps use remote API calls to
communicate with “always on” GRAFT nodes which mine new
transactions blocks and process transaction requests in real time.
Users that require even higher level of control over privacy, anonymity,
and availability (for example, large merchants or secret organizations)
may run their own supernode or even multiple supernodes which would
exclusively and privately communicate with their client apps, relay
messages and transactions to other supernodes, issue offline
authorizations, and mine GRAFTs required for running store credit, gift,
and loyalty programs.
Consumer apps include:

● Desktop and mobile merchant Point of Sale apps for accepting
payments in graftcoins, bitcoins, altcoins, and credit/debits
cards, as well as configuring payouts in bitcoins, altcoins, and
local fiat currencies, which can be used by both buyers and
merchants.
● Desktop, mobile, and Chrome browser extension Wallet apps for
making payments in graftcoins, bitcoins, altcoins, and
credit/debit cards (by using instant exchange brokers), and
sending and receiving transfers in graftcoins.
● GRAFT SDK will allow integration with major merchant point of
sale software and shopping carts, for processing both online and
brick-and-mortar transactions. GRAFT will incorporate a GRAFT
smartcard as a payment method. In addition to carrying keys, the
card will also store biometric signatures of the user and a set of
memorized or look-up secrets, which can be used for
at-the-terminal authentication. GRAFT Foundation and service
brokers will support the smartcard and smartcard reader
production.
In addition to supporting consumer focused transactions (B2C), GRAFT
will support B2B (business-to-business) transactions and integrate into
the existing business workflows. Such workflows can range from
something as simple as automatically collecting according to credit
terms (e.g. Net 30, 60, 90), to complex workflows such as settling the
shipper’s customs bill and accounting for it as part of the overall
transactions, to distributing the funds based on reaching milestones and
customer approvals.
GRAFT also plays well into the IoT space as some of the IoT devices need
to “charge” for the data or services that they are offering. An example
would be a brick-and-mortar merchant summoning a truck based on the
inventory levels as determined by backend systems and sensors.

Conclusion
GRAFT wouldn’t exist without its predecessors. It is based on ideas,
principles, and technologies introduced and tested by creators of other
cryptographic utility tokens. Using most recent technologies developed
by cryptography community along with newly developed solutions for
transaction processing and security will allow GRAFT to compete with

traditional payment
processors.

methods

and

existing

centralized

payment

References
1.
2.
3.
4.

Bitcoin. ​https://bitcoin.org/en/​.
Dash. ​https://www.dash.org/​.
Bitpay. ​https://bitpay.com/​.
GRAFT Definition. Merriam-Webster (2017).
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/graft#h2​.
5. What Is GRAFTing? - Definition & Methods. Study.com (2017).
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-grafting-definition-me
thods-quiz.html​.
6. Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard. Requirements
and Security Assessment Procedures. Version 3.2 PCI Security
Standards Council (2016).
https://pcicompliance.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/pci_dss_v
3-2.pdf​.
7. NIST Special Publication 800-63. Revision 3. Digital Identity
Guidelines. NIST (2017).
https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63-3.html​.
8. IOTA. ​https://iota.org/​.
9. Median Confirmation Time. Blockchain.
https://blockchain.info/charts/median-confirmation-time?timesp
an=30days​.
10.Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Dash, Monero Avg. Transaction Fee
historical chart. Bitinfocharts.com.
https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/transactionfees-btc-eth-ltc
-dash-xmr-sma7.html#1y​.
11.Square.
https://squareup.com/reader?utm_medium=affiliate&utm_source
=phg&utm_term=1100l4dN2S2g​.
12.PayPal.
https://www.paypal.com/us/webapps/mpp/merchant-fees​.
13.Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Dash, Monero Avg. Transaction Fee
historical chart. Bitcoincharts.
https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/transactionfees-btc-eth-ltc
-dash-xmr-sma7.html#1y​.

14.Average Confirmation Time. Blockchain.
https://blockchain.info/charts/avg-confirmation-time?timespan=3
0days​.
15.Median Confirmation Time. Blockchain.
https://blockchain.info/charts/median-confirmation-time?timesp
an=30days​.
16.First transaction using instant send took 10 mins. Dash.
https://www.dash.org/forum/threads/first-transaction-using-inst
ant-send-took-10-mins.12880/​.
17.Visa Inc. at a Glance. Visa.
https://usa.visa.com/dam/VCOM/download/corporate/media/vis
a-fact-sheet-Jun2015.pdf​.
18.Scalability. Bitcoin Wiki. ​https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Scalability​.
19.MONERO. Private Digital Currency. ​https://getmonero.org/​.
20.What are Open Loop and Closed Loop Gift Cards? Shelley Hunter.
GiftCards.com.
https://www.giftcards.com/gcgf/open-loop-versus-closed-loop-gif
t-cards​.
21.CryptoNote. ​https://cryptonote.org/​.

