Whitepaper Version 1.1

All rights reserved by Hashshare Inc.

Contents
01 Introduction

……………………………………………03

02 ERC20 based HSS Token.……………..………06
03 What is Proof of Stake……………………..………………07
04 Hashshare Proof of Stake …..…..………………08
05 Hashshare Business & Service ………..…………09
06 Hashshare Mining Center …………………………13
07 Hashshare Mining Pool ……………………………14
08 Hashshare Platform
09 Hashshare Ecosystem

………………………………16
……………………………17

10 Hashshare Operating System ……………………18
11 Token Economy

………………………………………19

12 Roadmap

……………………………………………… 20

1 3 Partners

………………………………………………2 1

14 Disclaimer

…………………………………………… 22

Introduction

PAGE 03

01 Introduction
Hashshare(HSS) Project
Hashshare(HSS) is the first project in the world that combined Bitcoin Mining System
with a Staking node. The HSS project was developed with the establishment of an
efficient and stable Bitcoin mining system for anyone to participate in. The HSS team
needed a cryptocurrency to promote global participation in diverse businesses funded
by mining profits. So HSS team has developed a Staking node service with an ERC20
based token HSS.
HSS network participants receive HSS rewards according to their contribution amount
in Staking node, rather than simply participating in a mining project. In addition, the
use of HSS will be expanded by investing the revenue generated from the foundation,
in projects prepared separately by the HSS team, which will increase the value of HSS.

Reward

HashShare

Project

Cloud Mining

BTC

Staking Node

HSS + BTC

Introduction

01 Introduction
Hashshare(HSS) Project Flow Chart

Crypto
currency
Exchange

HSS buyback with 30% of revenue

Company’s
Profit

HSS

HSS

Company

User

BTC
Mining

Staking
Node

HSS

Cloud
Mining
Staking
Node
DeFi
Business

30% of mining
to BTC Airdrop

Mining
Business
Reinvesting 50 % of mining in the mining facility

Cloud
Mining

HSS Company Business

HSS Network

*Details on p.17

09 Hashshare Ecosystem

PAGE 04

Introduction

PAGE 05

01 Introduction
Hashshare (HSS) key advantages
1. Establishing an efficient and stable mining system
The HSS team will strategically conduct mining in China and Kazakhstan to enhance
profitability. Mining has already begun in China and another mining center will come
online in Kazakhstan in Q3 2020. China and Kazakhstan have many advantages in
establishing and operating mining centers because of the low electricity rates. People
living in countries with low mining profitability due to high electricity rates can
participate and get Bitcoin rewards from mining in China and Kazakhstan through HSS
network, without purchasing ASIC or any other equipment.

2. Procuring a variety of use cases
In order to stabilize the value of the HSS and hold its value in the long term, the HSS
Foundation will secure the use of the HSS. The HSS Foundation is preparing various
projects based on revenue generated from mining in China and Kazakhstan, and
planning to expand the business areas that can be derived from cloud mining and
establish a platform for financial products such as OTC and loan services that can
provide various uses cases for HSS.

3. Fast transaction
HSS Token guarantees fast transactions without waiting time by performing
verification at near real-time speed.

An efficient and stable
mining system

01

Fast
transaction

02

03

Procuring a variety of use cases

ERC20 Token

PAGE 06

02 ERC20 based HSS Token
ERC20(Ethereum Request for Comment 20) token
The security problem of the QT Wallet was discovered when HSS was initially
developed as a Masternode coin. So it was decided to swap HSS Masternode coin to
the ERC20 token.

What is an ERC20 token?
ERC-20 tokens are tokens designed and used solely on the Ethereum platform The
smart contract details of ERC20 tokens are transparently disclosed in EtherScan, so it is
easy to find information such as transaction details, token holders and etc. ERC20
tokens follow a list of standards so that they can be shared, exchanged for other
tokens within the Dapps (Decentralized Applications), or transferred to a crypto-wallet.
ERC-20 standard compliant tokens scattered across various DApps can be later
integrated and converted into Ether at a time and be cashed. Ethereum community
has created these standards with three optional rules and six mandatory rules.

Optional

Mandatory

Token Name

Total Supply

Symbol

Balance Of

Decimal (up to 18)

Transfer
Transfer From
Approve
Allowance

Proof of Stake

PAGE 07

03 What is Proof of Stake
Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus algorithm
Definition of PoS
The Proof-of-Stake (PoS) consensus algorithm is an alternative to Proof-of-Work
(PoW) and is the first consensus mechanism introduced by Peercoin in the blockchain
industry. The PoS method differs from the PoW method in that the authority for
generating a block is determined based on staking behavior, not the computing
power of the participant. As a result, the PoS settlement method has lower entry
barriers to network participation than the PoW method, which increases the chances
for individual participants with small amounts to contribute to the security and
stability of the network and receive a reward in return.
Strengthen the security of the network through a penalty system
In a PoS-based network, stake participants begin with a security deposit for network
stability. Stake participants are also referred to as network validators. If a validator
does not perform the transaction history validation correctly, some or all of their
staking coins may be lost as a penalty. If the amount that the validator may lose from
falsifying records is greater than the stake reward, the validator will have no incentive
for participation in staking. The staking system, in which assets of all participants must
be held in a deposit, becomes a safeguard against which the network can be stably
maintained.

Hashshare PoS PAGE 08

04 Hashshare PoS
Hashshare's consensus algorithm
The HSS network verifies transaction details and validity through the PoS consensus
method, without wasting resources. Rewards are provided for all participants who
contribute to the security and stability of the HSS network. In order for a participant
to contribute to this network, the HSS token must be staked to become a staking
node.

HSS Staking node
The HSS Staking Node is a node contributing to the efficient operation of the HSS
network. Anyone can participate as a Staking node by transferring HSS to a
dedicated HSS wallet in the Hashshare Platform. Rewards for participation are
allocated according to the amount of staked HSS.
However, the participation requirements for becoming an HSS Staking node are as
follows:

1. Provide at least 10,000 HSS as a deposit
2. Maintain a reliable 24 hour Internet network
3. Use dedicated wallet address in Hashshare platform

Business & Service

PAGE 09

05 Hashshare Business & Service
Hashshare's Business and Premium Services
Based on know-how and experience accumulated over two years, the HSS team
provides service in the following areas. Revenue generated from the following sources
will be used to repurchase HSS, to stabilize HSS value.

First, mining, commissioning, and mining equipment business for cryptocurrencies
Currently, some of mining equipment is operating in China, which is the center of
mining equipment production and boasts cheap electricity rates, and in Kazakhstan, a
key country in Central Asia with a favorable environment for mining. In these two
areas, ASIC equipment is operated to mine Bitcoin, which is a leader in market
capitalization among cryptocurrencies. In addition, by building proprietary mining
containers and developing mining pools, HSS team is able to increase mining
efficiency. Based on these efforts, the team has built a facility that enables stable
mining. Current level of power consumption and price prompted team to use mining
equipment with excellent price-to-performance ratios. HSS will eventually expand to a
size capable of operating 100,000 mining equipment units at the mining center in
Kazakhstan, and will actively attract consigned equipment to enter. HSS team will also
carry out mining equipment sales and repair projects to purchase mining equipment
cheaply through efficient sales channels.

Second, Staking node Platform
Hashshare will provide a Staking node platform for the purpose of contributing to the
expansion of the Staking node ecosystem applied to the HSS network. Platform will
take care of everything so that even users who are new to Staking nodes can easily
participate, and can build their own portfolio by selecting various projects based on
Staking nodes.

DeFi (financial product) service
The HSS team will provide DeFi services to increase the value of HSS. The Hashshare
Cloud Mining Platform provides DeFi products using mining resources. In the future,
after the sale of the hashrate, it will support loan services with hashrate as a collateral,
and OTC trading.

Mining Center

PAGE 10

06 Hashshare Mining Center
Mining Center
First mining center, China (started mid-July, 2019)
The biggest reason for mining in China is reduced time and cost of operation after
purchasing mining equipment. Mining in China, the largest production base of ASIC
equipment, not only saves time and transport costs to the mining center immediately
after the miner is produced, but also reduces the overall cost because there is no
separate customs. In addition, hydropower plants are well-developed and electricity
can be supplied smoothly from eco-friendly energy sources in China. In particular, in
the summer when rainfall is abundant, remaining power generated by hydroelectric
dams reduces electricity charges.
Advanced mining container : Advanced mining container with optimal cooling and
low-cost maintenance. Fast installation and Ease of mobility. Also containers can be
stacked like Lego blocks, making them highly scalable. Fast installation and optimized
maintenance are possible even if more customers are involved.

Advanced mining container photos from mining center in Sichuan, China

Mining Center

PAGE 11

06 Hashshare Mining Center
Second Mining Center, Kazakhstan (scheduled to start in the Q3 2020)
Kazakhstan has significantly fewer regulatory requirements than China and an
advantageous environment for cryptocurrency mining. The HSS Foundation secured a
USD 0.03 level electricity rate per kW through a contract with an electric supplier at
Kazakhstan Weskemen, and completed preparations for the inexpensive operation of
mining equipment. Indeed, Kazakhstan is one of the nine countries with the lowest
cost to run a mining center. From research the cost of mining of 1BTC in 115
countries, it was found that the cheapest is $531 (Venezuela) and the most expensive
is $26,170 (Korea). In China, where large-scale mining centers are in operation, it was
found to cost $3,172. Only in nine countries have costs less than $3,000 for the
electricity to mine 1 BTC, including Kazakhstan. In addition, Kazakhstan has a climate
suitable for mining, with low humidity throughout the year, including the summer,
with less precipitation and longer winters. Even if the temperature rises above 30
degrees in the summer, it is cool in the shade due to the dry climate. As a result,
Kazakhstan has less cooling cost than hot and humid areas. In other words,
Kazakhstan, which has such climatic advantages, is an optimal mining place that can
significantly reduce mining costs for operating a mining center.

Hashshare Mining Center photos from Kazakhstan

Mining Center

PAGE 12

06 Hashshare Mining Center
Mining Container?

“

”

The HSS team has optimized mining facilities to maximize the efficiency of mining
equipment, and set up the latest mining containers at the mining center!

Advantage 1.

Self-cooling capability and complete power supply system

The container box minimizes heat generation and allows for smooth airflow. It keeps
the mining equipment stable by releasing the heat generated by ASIC equipment,
which performs highly computational work. So it reduces the cost of electricity for
coolers.

Advantage 2.

Scalability

HSS containers can be stacked like Lego blocks, making them highly scalable. HSS
containers can be stacked like Lego blocks, making them highly scalable. In order to
construct a new warehouse facility, a site must be selected, then purchased or leased,
but an HSS container can be installed on top of an existing container without
expanding the site, so expansion will not cause any problems.

Advantage 3.

Ease of mobility

The container-type mining facility, in contrast to a warehouse type, has the advantage
of easy transportation of mining equipment. The HSS team is planning to operate a
large mining center in Kazakhstan, which has a favorable mining environment, after
first mining in China, which is close to mining equipment manufacturers. The mining
equipment containers are moveable, so it minimizes transportation work. In addition,
thousands of mining equipment units can be transported to the desired location
without any installation work as they are pre-installed within containers.

Mining Center

06 Mining Center
Mining Center Operation Strategy
As mentioned earlier, the HSS team is conducting its first mining in Sichuan, China,
and is currently mining Bitcoin with new and secondhand mining equipment with
high price-to-performance ratios. The choice of China for the first mining center is
to improve profitability by reducing the time and cost of mining equipment
transportation, and because the equipment can be exchanged for free within six
months if the equipment is defective. HSS plans to move mining equipment with
expired free A/S from China to Kazakhstan, which has been established as the best
environment for the operation of a mining center, and operate the second, main
mining center in Pavlodar and Oskemen, Kazakhstan from the 3rd quarter of 2020.
30% of mined Bitcoin at China and Kazakhstan mining centers will be allocated to
users who have deployed Staking nodes on HSS platform, after deducting the
operating costs, and 50% will be reinvested in the expansion of mining equipment.
The primary goal is to operate a total of 10,000 units of latest ASIC miners by the
end of 2020, and to operate more than 100,000 units in Kazakhstan through
securing 300MW of electricity with continuous reinvestments and additional equity
investments.

PAGE 13

Mining Pool

PAGE 14

07 Hashshare Mining Pool
The Mining Pool
If a block is created by individually-operated mining equipment, the block reward will
all be received by one person, but considering the current difficulty of Bitcoin mining,
this is very unlikely to occur. First of all, Bitcoin mining requires devices with high
computing power to solve a single puzzle, and ASIC equipment is sold for this
purpose. Although individuals can purchase and operate several units of ASIC
equipment, it is very difficult for them to create a block in a Bitcoin network, because
one must beat a large pool of mining equipment that operates thousands to ten
thousand units of ASIC equipment. However, these individuals can also share block
rewards by entrusting their equipment or participating in pools in a cloud mining
manner. Participating in a mining pool compared to solo mining (individual mining)
has the following advantages:

First, low volatility of mining income!
Solo mining may not produce a single block even after hundreds of days with an
individual’s mining equipment. On the contrary, enterprise-class mining pools running
hundreds to ten thousands of mining equipment units are much more likely to create
blocks than individuals. In a mining pool, all mining equipment providing computing
power are used to create blocks, and the entire block reward is allocated according to
the hash power contributed by each miner. Thus, unlike solo miners who are endlessly
solving puzzles without retrieving the cost of electricity and mining equipment, mining
pool participants allocate rewards daily in accordance with the hash power that they
contribute to the mining pool.

Mining Pool

PAGE 15

07 Hashshare Mining Pool
Second, convenience!
Solo mining involves many tasks and expenses, such as purchasing and configuring
mining equipment, installing software, securing cooling equipment, and paying for
electricity, but mining pool participants only purchase their desired hash power and
monitor the daily mining status because the pool manager takes care of everything.

Third, low barriers!
By participating in a mining pool, one can start mining at a lower cost than doing
solo mining. If an individual is planning to mine alone, he or she must bear the initial
investment in mining equipment and continuously pay for expensive electricity. If one
participates in a mining pool, he or she will receive as much hash power as they wish
to purchase, and the coins mined from the pool will be allocated according to the
purchased hash power after deducting various expenses. Therefore, those who
participate in the pool are relatively less burdened than investors who use their own
equipment because they can adjust the initial investment cost for hash power
purchases as well.

Hashshare Platform

PAGE 16

08 Hashshare Platform
Staking node Platform
In order to extend the Staking node ecosystem, the HSS team developed the HSS
Staking node platform that enables users to participate in Staking node project
running on the HSS network. This makes it easy for many people to participate in
various blockchain networks and receive rewards, without having to directly operate
servers. In addition, teams with Stakingnode-based projects can receive marketing and
technical support through the HSS Staking node platform.

Portfolio
The first single product presented by the HSS team is Hashshare (HSS) token, an
ERC20 based token issued by the HSS foundation. Individuals willing to participate in
the Hashshare network's Staking node project can apply on the HSS Staking node
platform to set up their Staking node, after purchasing HSS tokens at an exchange
where it is listed. The HSS specialist team will build a portfolio based on profitable
projects by referring to various indicators, including community participation and price
stability for each cryptocurrency project that adopts Staking node technology. Later,
users can subscribe for packages provided by the HSS Staking node platform with
HSS and BTC, and receive a small discount if they participate with HSS.

Shared Staking node Service
The HSS platform provides a Shared Staking node Service, which allows participation
even without meeting 100% of the deposit requirements of Staking nodes for each
network, and rewards will be distributed based on the provided collateral.
HSS holders can select a cryptocurrency that supports Staking nodes and add it to
their portfolio by voting. Accordingly, if a company has introduced or is planning to
introduce a Staking node, it can request the HSS platform to find a way to rapidly
expand the Staking node.

Hashshare Ecosystem

PAGE 17

09 Hashshare Ecosystem
HSS Token and Ecosystem
The HSS network can be used for mining a Bitcoin with a small investment by
individuals, without having to prepare mining facilities which are expensive and
difficult to operate. . HSS holders can apply for a Staking node according to the
conditions and receive rewards. The HSS Staking node receives Bitcoin rewards in
addition to the HSS rewards according to the protocol on the network. As mentioned
earlier, a 30% of Bitcoin mined in China and Kazakhstan will be paid (airdropped) to
users who have built a Staking node on the HSS platform after deducting
maintenance costs. And 50% will be reinvested in mining facilities to increase the
mining rewards that Staking nodes receive. The HSS Foundation not only mines in
China and Kazakhstan, but also conducts an entrusted mining and mining equipment
business, and provides HSS holders with more benefits through the HSS Staking node
platform and cryptocurrency trading service. When HSS will be listed and traded on
the open market, it will carry out a quarterly HSS buyback with 30% of the revenues
generated from the entrusted mining, equipment business, HSS Staking node
platform, and strategic investment management operated by the HSS team.

Reinvestment
in mining
facility 50%

Staking node
reward 30%

Operating cost
20%
<Mining profit excluding maintenance cost>

Ecosystem Components
1. Users : Staking nodes and HSS traders.
2. Staking node : Contributors to the efficient operation of HSS network.
3. HSS Foundation : HSS issuer and decision maker for project expansion funded by
mining profits.

Hashshare Operating System

PAGE 18

10 Hashshare Operating System
Operating System
It was mentioned earlier, HSS increases the stability of the HSS network and supports
fast transactions through the introduction of Staking nodes. In addition, Bitcoin
mining is distributed for users who have built staking nodes, and some of the profits
generated by the HSS team's business are used for HSS buyback. The advantages of
HSS are not limited to this, but have the following characteristics.

Convenient governance function
HSS users can perform all governance-related functions (i.e. voting) within the HSS
platform without accessing the website or installing and utilizing the debug console.

Low fee
The HSS team is planning to activate the HSS token-fee transactions and adjusting the
fees involved in the transaction to the minimum. To clarify, users can make
transactions by paying fees with HSS.

Staking
Node

Reward

Voting

Low fee

Token Economy

PAGE 19

11 Token Economy
Token Summary
• Token Name : Hashshare
• Ticker : HSS
• Staking node Collateral : over 10,000
• Total Supply : 200,000,000
• Algorithm : ERC20 - POS

Token Allocation

HSS User Distribution (48,000,000 HSS)
24%

45%

Reserve (50% Lock) (62,000,000 HSS)

31%

Staking Reward (90,000,000 HSS)

Company Use
Development & Research 30%
5%
8%

5%

Marketing 22%
30%

Team 20%
10%

Reserve 10%
Partners 8%
20%

22%

Legal Advisor 5%
Advisor 5%

Roadmap

PAGE 20

12 Roadmap
2018 Q3 HSS Development Team setup; Hashshare Platform plan, research, and
design
2018 Q4 White paper draft; Expand development team and conduct beta tests
2019 Q1 Mainnet build and operation after completing the platform; Launch beta
Wallet and Masternode demonstration
2019 Q2 Publish White Paper 1.0; Promoting and marketing HSS
2019 Q3 MOU and agreement with local and overseas business partners;
Full-scale platform operation; User marketing and recruitment;
1st

Listing HSS in BW exchange; Establish overseas corporation in Kazakhstan,
mining center launch in China

2019 Q4 Start the Mainnet upgrade; Expand the Hashshare Platform Portfolio
2020 Q1 Prepare and sign a 2nd mining center contract in Kazakhstan
2020 Q2 Cloud mining business expansion, platform upgrade
2020 Q3 ERC20 token swap, HSS token listing in exchange,
2nd mining center launch
2020 Q4 Enhance HSS coin value by realizing Buy-Back with the foundation's profits,
Listing in one of Global top exchanges
2021 Q1 Establishing the Hashshare’s 4th industry educational center in Kazakhstan

2022 Coming soon

Partners

13 Partners

PAGE 21

Disclaimer

PAGE 22

14 Disclaimer
Disclaimer
Please read the following articles carefully before participating in an HSS Token Sale. The investment
obtained through the HSS Token Sale will be used for the development described in this whitepaper.
(Please note that the development content and roadmap are not firm and may be changed in the
future.) HSS Token is not a securities or stock and bonds, and does not represent ownership of
Hashshare. This white paper is not used to attract investment, and no one other than Hashshare can
issue an HSS Token to implement the plan described in the whitepaper. Please read the following
precautions and participate if you agree.
1. You agree that an HSS Token does not constitute a stock.
2. This whitepaper is not used for the purpose of attracting investment.
3. You acknowledge that the content of this white paper does not express the merits of HSS Token..
4. You recognize that if you are a citizen, resident, or permanent resident of a country with limited
token sales, you will not be able to participate in the HSS Token Sale.
5. You agree that the information contained in this whitepaper and any current or future
communication with anyone will not be construed as guaranteeing any form of benefit or profit.
6. You acknowledge that it may result in financial loss from unknown risks associated with
cryptocurrencies, such as severe fluctuations in the value of cryptocurrencies and inherent risks in the
cryptocurrency industry. You agree to understand these risks and take full risk of potential losses.
7. You acknowledge that there is a risk associated with everything related to the business and
operation of Hashshare and all of the HSS Token.
8. You acknowledge that the development content and roadmap of this whitepaper are not final and
may change in the future.
9. You recognize that email notifications will never ask for your information or to respond to
Hashshare's frequent emails to you. To reduce the likelihood of fraud, phishing attempts and other
illegal acts by third parties, you agree not to respond directly to any emails related to HSS Token.
10. You agree that HSS does not warrant the duration of the operation of the Hashshare Ecosystem,
and you acknowledge that the HSS Ecosystem may be suspended for various reasons.
11. After participating in the HSS Token Sale, you become an HSS Token Holder, but it does not
mean that you become a holder in any share of Hashshare or other securities.
12. To participate in the HSS Token Sale, contributors must confirm the following:

1 - Does the contributor's country have legal authority to receive HSS Tokens?
2 - Can contributor be fully responsible for receiving HSS Tokens and for all relevant
restrictions and risks?
3- Does the contributor understand the usage and relationship between Blockchain and
cryptocurrency?

