WHITEPAPER

P lease rememb er to alwa ys vis it our off ic ia l w e bs it e for t h e m os t r e c e ntly
up d ated version of our w h it e pa pe r (w w w .h e lix-c r ypt o.c om) .

Table of Contents

Introduction

3

Usage

4

Proof of Stake

5

Masternodes

6

Privacy

7

Coin Information

8

Community

9

10

Disclaimer

2

Introduction
Thanks to a lot of technological innovations in the past

Although a lot of institutions have the intention to

years, enormous wealth and opportunities became

track and spy on their users, privacy is a great good

reality for the big crowd. Cryptocurrencies and the

for us all. This is something Helix takes very seriously

adoption of blockchain technology play a great part in

and promises to deliver in high quality. The most

this revolution

acknowledged cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin do not

.

offer adequate protection of a person’s identity.

On January 3rd 2009, the very first transaction of

Transactions made on the blockchain are easily traced

Bitcoin took place. Satoshi Nakamoto, the founder of the

by an investigator. These ‘pseudonymous’ transactions

first Ledger of decentralized global transactions, also

are all recorded and traceable. Helix implemented an

referred to as the blockchain, accomplished something

improved privacy feature as a solution to this problem.

what everyone thought was impossible. Bitcoin is now
considered as the ‘original’ cryptocurrency. Even though

Helix is a premium privacycentric cryptocurrency based

Bitcoin is having a hard time to become adopted by

on the product of Satoshi Nakamoto, improved with

the world as a currency, tremendous milestones have

strong features resulting in a decentralized, effectively

been reached.

anonymous cryptocurrency, with immediate (private)
transactions and an incentivized network to provide

One of Bitcoins main issues is the fact that it takes

additional services and security to the blockchain

a lot of time to confirm a transaction. This is a major

network of Helix.

problem for merchants. Helix seeks to solve this issue
by implementing the blockchain technology from
Bitcoins code, but with a faster and more responsive
network. Therefore, Helix is a better option to use as
a currency since it has a greater potential in terms of
transaction volume and speed.

3

Usage
Helix has numerous features. Remember that this list

We believe in empowering individuals by creating

is not limited, and that we will always work hard to add

a strong community. We give freedom back to the

new features:

people by using our strong Helix blockchain network
and decentralized technology. This allows people to do
business without the compromise of being subject to

•

Fast and secure transactions.

•

Strong privacy with options for both private and

•

•

surveillance by centralized or legal institutions.

transparent transactions.

We have set our maximum block sizes to 2 MB. By doing

Rewards for participating in the Helix network.

so, Helix will be able to handle a higher transaction

This includes Proof of Stake (PoS) as well as the

volume than Bitcoin with faster confirmations. This will

possibility for masternode rewards.

open up the path for a world adopted currency.

Participating in governance and voting in
important matters that concern the whole

Helix is accessible for everyone. It’s very easy to

community.

install and use right away. This is crucial as other

Multi-OS wallets: Windows, MacOS, Linux, and

cryptocurrencies don’t provide this ease of use. By

many more to come.

helping every individual with a highly personal approach,

•

Very easy access to all our features and wallets.

we aim to create a joyful community in which everyone

•

We will continue to work hard on making Helix

can participate.

•

grow, check out our roadmap for details.

4

Proof of Stake
Bitcoin uses a cryptographic hashing algorithm to

By taking mining out of the hands of only a few big

encode the transactions in the blockchain. Miners

miners, the work is evenly distributed across the

create these hashes by using a ‘Proof of Work’ (PoW)

community.

algorithm. The network hashrate is actually inflating as
it requires a lot of power to create a new block in its

Eventually, the community will provide Helix with a

blockchain.

robust and secure network. Holder of the Helix network
will be stimulated to intensify the value of Helix and

Unlike Bitcoins PoW mechanism, Helix blockchain uses

all its aspects. By downloading our Helix wallet and

a hybrid system. The first 90.200 blocks are PoW,

letting it run 24/7, the user will receive its share of the

and after this period we switch to a PoS mechanism.

block rewards in return for securing the Helix network.

The rewards a user receives depends on the amount
of stake the participant has in the Helix network. The

We have created a detailed guide for setting up

more you participate in validating and processing Helix

everything you need. Also, feel free to contact us

transactions and its blocks, the more rewards you

whenever you need or join us on social media for

receive. Therefore, it’s incentivized to invest in Helix

additional support.

as a valuable core product.
The way Helix blockchain consensus works offers a lot
of advantages:

•

Less power and electricity are used to secure the
Helix blockchain. Our PoS system is environmentfriendly and much more sustainable.

•

With a linear scale regarding the percentage of
blocks confirmed by the miner, PoS is a fairer
system than PoW since anyone can become a
‘miner’.

•

PoS aids decentralization. A Helix node can
operate on a very inexpensive running system.

5

Masternodes
The value of Helix lies in its main vision: building a secure

supported and multiple masternodes can be run if one

and scalable currency. Therefore, Helix implemented

wishes. Also, for additional security and privacy, you

masternodes, which can be used to earn more Helix by

can run your masternode using a router which operates

passive income to increase your holdings with a great

on Tor/Onion.

risk/reward ratio. A masternode costs 10.000 HLIX and
gives a ROI of 60%.

Once important decisions have to be made, the
masternode owners will have their democratic influence

Masternodes are enhanced nodes that are always up

on the outcome. Since we care about every individual,

and running, which provide additional functions and

we want you to be involved. By doing so, Helix created

security to the Helix network. Masternodes provide

a decentralized system which determines how our

an enhanced form of staking, increase the privacy

funds are allocated for Helix’s development.

and speed of transactions and enables participation
in governance and voting within the Helix community.

A great feature of the Helix masternode is the fact

A

(zHLIX)

that you don’t have to worry about your wallet going

transactions which ensures topnotch privacy (more

offline. The masternode will continue to operate. If for

about this subject under ‘Privacy’).

some reason you would like to stop the masternode

Helix

masternode

processes

Zerocoin

from running, you can unlock your Helix coins whenever
With our detailed guide to set up your own masternode

you’d like.

and personal support in our social media community,
running a Helix masternode is available for anyone.
You can set up and operate your masternode on your
computer at home, a Raspberry Pi, or on a Virtual
Private Server (VPS). The Helix masternodes are IPv6

6

Privacy
Helix believes in true and strong privacy. Bitcoins transactions are traceable
for anyone who’s interested to find out. A high degree of privacy doesn’t allow
this potential loss of privacy. That’s why Helix implemented the Zerocoin
protocol. For detailed information about Zerocoin, read their whitepaper 1.
For this service, Helix coins have to convert into a zHLIX coin. This process,
called ‘minting’, is provided by masternodes running on the Helix Blockchain.
No traces are left behind during this process. RSA-2048 encryption makes
sure no information about the users is shared whatsoever. To reverse this
process, you can send your zHLIX

coins to your own address back into

regular HLIX coins.
Another interesting feature about the zHLIX protocol is the fact that when
HLIX coins are converted into zHLIX, they no longer show up on your public
balance anymore. This will take away any concerns a person can have of
being targeted by hackers. The following Zerocoin scheme explains how it
works 2:

1

http://zerocoin.org/media/pdf/ZerocoinOakland.pdf

2

For more information about the Zerocoin protocol, please visit http://zerocoin.org

7

Coin information
Helix is founded on September 1st 2018. A total coin supply of 500.000.000
HLIX was created, with a functional pre-mine of 1% (5.000.000 HLIX). This
will be used for marketing, development and exchange listing fees. The first
period will exist of a PoW phase (10.000.000 HLIX), followed by a PoS phase
(485.000.000 HLIX).
The following table show the coin specifications:

The following table shows the block rewards. They adjust after a certain
amount is reached, to control inflation of the supply of Helix:

8

Community
The community started with a couple of early adopters who were unhappy
about the way some projects were run by its developers. No innovation or
vision whatsoever made us motivated to create something better. Since
Helix did not have an ICO and only started with a functional pre-mine of 1%,
it’s really thanks to the true core believers who put in their time and effort
that made Helix a reality.
We aim to provide 24/7 support, and we believe in a community who help
each other out. Positivity and fun should be your top priority as a Helix
community member. In accordance to this, we created the Helix masternode
governance system to bring back the power to the people. By letting you
decide on important matters, you’re in control of your investment.

Join us!
More people are joining every day and we hope this growth won’t stop.
Don’t feel afraid to join us and introduce yourself. We’re looking forward to
meet you!
With the upcoming years ahead of us, we believe that exciting things will
happen. Helix is a premium privacy centric cryptocurrency, with strong
features resulting in a decentralized, effectively anonymous cryptocurrency,
with immediate (private) transactions and an incentivized network to provide
additional services and security to the blockchain network of Helix. We will
continue to work hard on the project, and hope to see you join us.

9

Disclaimer
This Helix whitepaper is for information purposes only. Helix does not
guarantee the accuracy of or the conclusions reached in this white paper,
and this white paper is provided “as is”. Helix does not make and expressly
disclaims all representations and warranties, express, implied, statutory
or otherwise, whatsoever, including, but not limited to: (i) warranties of
merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, suitability, usage, title or
noninfringement; (ii) that the contents of this white paper are free from
error; and (iii) that such contents will not infringe third-party rights. Helix
and its affiliates shall have no liability for damages of any kind arising out of
the use, reference to, or reliance on this white paper or any of the content
contained above, even if advised of the possibility of such damages. In no
event will Helix or its affiliates be liable to any person or entity for any
damages, losses, liabilities, costs or expenses of any kind, whether direct or
indirect, consequential, compensatory, incidental, actual, exemplary, punitive
or special for the use of, reference to, or reliance on this white paper or any
of the content contained above, including, without limitation, any loss of
business, revenues, profits, data, use, goodwill or other intangible losses.

10

Copyright © HELIX

