



A Blockchain-based Patient Network




Whitepaper
Ver 1.1.0




Copyright ​ 2
​ 019. Humanscape all rights reserved.



Introduction

1. Chronic/rare and intractable diseases
Although all human beings are susceptible to diseases, we continuously repeat the process of
recovering our health through medical treatments. However, some patients suffer from diseases whose
etiologies are uncertain, exact diagnoses are difficult, and as a result, complete recovery is not possible.
These diseases include chronic diseases contracted by a large number of patients but with no
complete cure and the need for lifelong management, such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
cardiovascular diseases and cancer, in addition to rare and incurable diseases contracted by a small
number of patients with a relatively small volume of epidemics data.
Chronic diseases are becoming a global challenge due to rapidly-progressing population aging, decline
in physical activity and lifestyle changes such as increased intake of fat and beverages [1]. According to
the World Health Organization (WHO), chronic diseases are the leading causes of deaths worldwide. As
of 2015, 40 million out of 56 million deaths were caused by chronic diseases, and in addition, 1.7 million
patients were predicted to die before the age of 70. Moreover, more than one third of the world’s
population simultaneously suffer from multiple chronic conditions, which constitutes significant threats
to patients’ health and imposes enormous costs on society. Specifically, medical costs in patients with
multiple chronic diseases have been shown to increase by around 80 percent up to 300 percent,
depending on age, gender and health conditions. Meanwhile, “rare and incurable diseases” are defined
differently in each country, but generally refer to diseases for which the exact number of patients are
unknown because of their small number of patients and difficulty of diagnosis [2]. As of 2016, the
number of rare diseases registered on Orphanet, a portal for rare diseases, amounted to 6,084 and the
worldwide population with rare diseases is estimated at 350 million. In Korea, the total number of rare
diseases is estimated at around 2,000 and the affected population is calculated at 600,000 [3].
It is characteristic of ​rare and intractable diseases​ that their symptoms are controllable by
medication, lifestyle changes, operations, etc. but it is not possible to eradicate or treat the underlying
causes. Although early diagnosis may allow the early completion of treatment, these diseases cause
suffering to patients and their families due to the inadequacy of knowledge on the diseases, insufficient
research development and support, and the consequent lack of awareness toward the need for
self-care.

2
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

2. Patient-Generated Health Data, a clue to solution

Figure 1. Exponential Growth and Important Role of PGHD

Patient-Generated Health Data (hereinafter PGHD) refers to health-related data recorded and generated
by patients outside hospitals [4]. Due to the widespread penetration of smartphones and the growing
familiarity of patients with smart devices, the collection of diverse PGHD has become easier through
the utilization of online survey, mobile apps and wearable devices.
PGHD is a component of health data alongside genetic and clinical data, and and occupies substantial
amount of health data which makes its importance and applicability more significant[5, Figure 1].
we could expect its importance and
Since the majority of a patient’s activities occur outside hospitals, information recorded at a clinical
office is inevitably limited. Therefore, a growing importance is being placed on PGHD, as information
directly collected from patients and directly produced by patients throughout their struggle against
diseases. While PGHD has previously been regarded with less clinical value and interest compared to
other types of information, it fills an information niche by complementing aspects that cannot be
explained by existing medical data, and allows a more comprehensive understanding of patients’
health. An Accenture survey found that the number of consumers who participated in the collection of
PGHD using mobile healthcare applications rose to 33 percent in 2016, up from 16 percent in 2014 [6],
which shows that the volume of PGHD collected will increase exponentially in the future. Therefore,

3
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

PGHD, which includes information on patients’ health and diseases, can provide a clue to the solution
for diseases that are currently incurable.

2.1. Patients
As PGHD becomes more accessible with technology advancements, patients have become able to
capture their health-related data independently and thoroughly. As a result, patients are more actively
engaged in overcoming their diseases and are more interested in their own health. In addition, patients
are able to participate in the collection of data; to observe how their health status has changed with
time; to independently identify behaviors that influence health; and to satisfy their intellectual desire to
be informed about diseases and the human body by sharing information with other patients. These
processes allow patients to be more deeply engaged in treatments or research on their diseases and
reinforce their desire to undergo treatment. For instance, according to a survey conducted on heart
disease patients in the Connected Cardiac Care Program at Partners HealthCare, 98 percent of the
respondents reportedly became more aware of their diseases through PGHD, and 85 percent of them
came to be able to better control their diseases [7]. A pilot project conducted by the Care Beyond Walls
& Wires revealed that PGHD had an effect on reducing the readmission rate by 44 percent, average
length of stay by 64 percent and hospital cost per patient by USD 92,000 [8]. As such, PGHD has been
shown to have an actual influence on various aspects of patients’ struggle against diseases.

2.2. Healthcare Professionals
Healthcare professionals make decisions on medical treatments based on data collected from
hospitals. However, these data are created by capturing patients’ health at a certain time point, and
therefore exclude PGHD, which involves continuous changes of conditions or phenomena occurring
outside hospitals. Sole dependence on clinical data does not allow for a comprehensive evaluation of
patients’ health and may result in incomplete diagnosis or underdiagnosis. To improve this situation,
PGHD collected in patients’ daily life can be used to reduce misdiagnoses and aid the treatment of
chronic/rare and intractable diseases. Furthermore, healthcare professionals will be able to more
comprehensively understand patients’ health using PGHD [9]. For example, they may take proper
actions earlier, after detecting sudden changes in patients’ health conditions, and manage patients’
health to the best possible extent by changing treatment methods if necessary. In addition, their
continuous observation of patients’ daily life through PGHD yield insight into patients’ health as well as

4
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

information necessary for treatments tailored for patients’ condition, which ultimately assist the
improvement of patients’ health.

2.3. Research Institutes
Based on PGHD, researchers and pharmaceutical companies can recruit test subjects more easily and
diversely through online ads or social media without being dependent on hospitals or hospital-based
systems. These collection methods can improve the speed of research and reduce the time required to
establish a cohort or a data set to facilitate effective analysis. For example, PatientsLikeMe functions as
a platform for patients to better manage their health and for researchers to easily obtain data.
Pharmaceutical companies and clinical trial institutes acquire patients’ data through PatientsLikeMe
and are using the data for research purposes[10].​ L
​ ikewise, Humanscape will also contribute to disease
research, through the documentation of shared data on the medication effectiveness and side effects
to patients and the categorization of patient groups for various diseases [9].
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is already reflecting the PGHD of patients’ opinions and
experiences in its drug review process for rare and incurable diseases. This is because reflecting
patients’ direct experiences and opinions in the development stage of a new drug, such as in clinical
trials, may result in the production of safer and more effective medicine. Specifically, the FDA is
developing Externally-Led Patient-Focused Drug Development (EL-PFDD) meetings into a channel for
the collection of data based on the experiences of actual patients to provide them with helpful
information on medication and treatments [11].

5
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

3. Humanscape, a Patient Networking Service

3.1. Attempts and Limitations on Building a Health Information
Community
To date, the interchange of health information has largely taken place through Q&A services provided by
web portals or online communities for specific diseases. In particular, online health communities and
patient associations were generally organized around a specific disease and featured intensive
discussions focused on a single disease, which restricted their expansion into other areas. Furthermore,
existing communities are not equipped with mechanisms to sustain internal activities such as new
posts or information sharing, which became problematic as users were alienated to “lurker” status or
compelled to leave the community altogether. In this regard, a decline in community engagement
results in a corresponding decline of expectation or satisfaction toward the community, which then
poses a threat to the community’s sustainability [12].
Meanwhile, PatientsLikeMe constitutes a case in which the exchange of health information is occurring
at an extremely active rate. Established in 2004, PatientsLikeMe is an online community for sharing
information on symptoms among patients, mainly those with incurable diseases. Patients with
incurable diseases have voluntarily shared information on their symptoms with other users complaining
of similar symptoms, and currently, the number of patients registered on the platform is around
600,000 [13].
However, PatientsLikeMe remains somewhat limited in its capacity as a health information community.
Over 14 years since 2004, around 600,000 patients have joined PatientsLikeMe, but the number of
active patients on the site accounts for only around 17,000 as of 2018, and it is predicted that the
accumulated volume of data will not increase dramatically in the future. Moreover, as the main services
of PatientsLikeMe are focused on the sale of health “data” to pharmaceutical, insurance, and medical
device companies, the site is not active regarding exchanges of patients’ subjective experiences,
information or emotions shared as “content.” This signifies that patient activities in PatientsLikeMe are
limited to only the temporary input of data with limited practical and direct utility for patients. Therefore,
patients are not compelled to share information unless they are heavily involved in PatientsLikeMe, and

6
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

consequently, this implies that it is difficult to collect a high volume of PGHD across a diverse
spectrum.

3.2. Difficulty in Collecting PGHD
Active utilization of PGHD can be a way to contribute to treatments for patients suffering from
chronic/rare and intractable diseases. At present, however, PGHD is not systematically arranged or
accumulated to be used as a valuable data source. Patients have no choice but to investigate and
understand their conditions independently without any informative and emotional support for their
health conditions, unless they belong to any specific group or organization [14]. If PGHD is not
systematized and only individually owned without accumulation on the scale of big data, it is highly
likely to lose any potential value for research necessary for the development of new drugs or
treatments. In addition, patients are less likely to be able to efficiently find the necessary information on
diseases or drugs, which would narrow the range of choices available for the effective treatment of
diseases, and potentially suffer from diminished control over their body due to their dependence on
information gathered passively. Naturally, healthcare professionals may also lose the motivation to use
PGHD in making diagnoses, and face the risk of judging patients’ health from an incomplete and
simplistic perspective.

3.3. Potential of a Patient Networking Service
Against this backdrop, Humanscape is working to establish its namesake platform Humanscape, a
decentralized patient network based on blockchains. Humanscape can provide practical help for
patients to overcome their diseases through intellectual and emotional interaction with each other
based on community activities. This process is expected to generate and collect a high volume of
patient data, namely PGHD, on various disease groups. Furthermore, Humanscape facilitates active
research into ​chronic/rare and intractable diseases a
​ nd the development of new drugs by linking
patients to external industry sectors such as pharmaceutical firms and research institutes and helps
patients to avoid complications and enjoy healthy lives through the continuous self-management of
their lifestyle and symptoms. With these services, Humanscape is taking steps to liberate patients from
chronic/rare and intractable ​diseases, as its contribution to a world where everyone is healthy.

7
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

Blockchain-based Patient Network, Humanscape

1. Humanscape

1.1. Token Utilities

Token utilities of Humanscape induces stakeholders to behave in a way that helps patients, who are the
principal ecosystem users, to overcome their diseases.
The blockchain of Humanscape consists of HUM Tokens (HUM), the basic unit for transactions; HUM
Points (HP), points used within the ecosystem; and HUM Donations (DP), points used for donations. In
addition, Activity Index, Donation Index and User Score affect the token utilities.

1.1.1. HUM Token

HUM is the basic transactional token in Humanscape’s blockchain. It can be purchased and
sold in the exchange and transferred among users. The HUM holding is used for the operation
of Humanscape except the HUM used for the Initial Coin Offering (ICO).

8
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

1.1.2. HUM Point

HP refers to points used within the Humanscape ecosystem HP is not traded in the exchange
but can be purchased using HUM or earned through activities in the ecosystem. Although
speculators may attempt to trade HUM for short-term profits, Humanscape intends to
minimize the potential for speculation by limiting the routes for earning HP used in the
ecosystem and its conversion to HUM.
Earning HP
HP can be earned in the following ways. First, users can earn HP as a reward according to their
reward score. Second, patients can earn HP when their health data are utilized to recruit
subjects for clinical studies, develop post-launch surveys for new drugs, etc. Third, patients can
receive HP when they take part in institutional qualification processes. Finally, HP can be
earned when HUM is converted to HP.

Converting HP
HP exists for the operation and promotion of the Humanscape ecosystem. To enable
securitization of HP, HP is cross-convertible with HUM at a 1:1 ratio. However, in order to
prevent any disturbance of its ecosystem, Humanscape intends to place time limits on the
conversion of HP to HUM. Specifically, HUM can be converted to HP immediately, but HP can
be converted to HUM only in equal installments over a given time period. Users may select
from a variety of conversion period options based on their needs, and according to the length
of the conversion period, fees may be charged through the Ecosystem Development Fund to
maintain the ecosystem. The Ecosystem Development Fund is then transferred to the Reward
Pool, which can distribute rewards to ecosystem contributors.

Using HP
While HP basically exists in a form that cannot be traded, users are strongly encouraged to use
HP within the Humanscape ecosystem. Users can achieve a higher Activity Index by holding
onto HP and they can use their HP for donations or premium services within the Humanscape
ecosystem or for e-commerce, telemedicine or other services provided by third-party partners.
Finally, service providers can deposit a certain amount of HP or use it to pay their fees to
maintain the Humanscape network.

9
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

1.1.3. Donation Points: DP
DP refers to donation points that users earn through their contributions to the ecosystem. DP
can be used only for donations and users cannot use DP for other purposes (e.g., converting to
HUM or HP or using Humanscape services).
Patient association activities to represent patient rights and interests or take a leading role in
disease treatment may yield outstanding results over the long term that cannot be achieved on
the strength of an individual patient alone. Examples include supporting new drug development,
hosting educational programs for patients and supporting patients who are experiencing
economic difficulties. By encouraging donations through DP, Humanscape seeks to assist
user-supported patient associations, which will further fuel their motivation to participate. From
the patient perspective, patient associations aim to promote practical activities necessary for
patients through financial rewards.
Earning DP
First of all, users receive additional DP corresponding to a certain percentage of the amount of
rewards (Rx) that they receive when rewards are distributed. Next, users can choose to receive
a portion of the reward for their ecosystem activities in DP instead of HP. The higher the ratio of
DP rewards to the total reward, the more additional DP are paid out to the user according to
that ratio.
Converting DP
DP can be converted to HUM only when donated by patient associations or other organizations,
and it cannot be converted into HP. DP has the same face value as HP, and the conversion ratio
of HUM to HP and DP is 1:1:1.
The collected DP can be withdrawn in one of two ways depending on the donation type. First,
for the unlimited fundraising method (regular contributions) with no set period or target
amount, the amount of DP raised is converted to HUM in 4 equal installments over a period of 4
weeks. For the method of raising DP with a set deadline, on the other hand, the amount of DP
raised is converted to HUM over a period of 2 weeks from the deadline or after the target
amount is met. Since it is prohibited to reuse the collected contributions for donations, they
must be converted into HUM.

10
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

1.1.4. Ecosystem Rewards
To ensure the data sovereignty of users and encourage their activity, Humanscape rewards
users according to their contributions to the ecosystem.
Reward Pool
Rewards for activities conducted within Humanscape are paid out of the Reward Pool, and the
process is carried out automatically in compliance with operating policy. Users are awarded a
certain amount of HP and DP according to their reward scores. The rewards that users receive
are drawn from the Reward Pool, and the amounts are set to protect the market value of the
rewards earned by all users. These rewards are calculated based on the Moving Average of the
Reward Pool over a given time frame to prevent excessive fluctuations in the amount of
rewards provided.

now

At =

∑ Si

now−t

t

At : Moving Average of the Reward Pool for a given time frame,
Si : A
​ mount of the Reward Pool at a given time, t: Calculation period for the Moving
Average

At the time that each reward is calculated, a certain rate of the Moving Average of the Reward
Pool becomes the total amount of rewards at that time.

T t = r × At
T t : Total amount of rewards at a given time,
r : Reward ratio (increases gradually by up to 10% in proportion to the number of
community participants)

The Reward Pool is charged through the Community Development Fund from third-party
players within Humanscape, including advertising, e-commerce and the HP exchange. Since it
takes a certain amount of time for third-party services to stabilize and charge the Reward Pool

11
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

without outside support, the Reward Pool is charged periodically with a portion of the HUM
allocated to the Community Development Fund at the beginning of the launch of service.

Activity Index
The Activity Index indicates a user’s level of activity in the Humanscape ecosystem. The
Activity Index aims to encourage users’ ecosystem activities. It is calculated comprehensively
by applying a weighted value to each factor of the users’ activities within a given time frame,
including the posts, votes, donations, HP usage, HP holdings, etc., and is reset at the end of
each calculation period. The types of activity factors and their respective weighted values can
be changed only for the purpose of invigorating the ecosystem.

Gt = Σwf × f t
Gt : Activity Index for a given time frame,
wf : Weighted value for each factor,
f t :​ Index for each activity factor for a given time frame
Reward Score
The Reward Score is a composite score calculated based on the Activity Index for each user.
The Reward Score determines the amount of rewards(Rx) for a user. Based on the assumption
that the overall distribution of the Activity Index follows a normal distribution, the Reward Score
is calculated by converting the Activity Index to a standard score. This standard score is used
to prevent new or minority users from exercising their influence excessively or even abusing
that influence.

Mx = g ×
Mx : U
​ ser

Gx −m
σ

+ 100

X' s Reward Score for the given period (minimum value of M=10)​,

g : ​Correction value of the standard score,
Gx : ​User

X’s Activity Index for the given period,

σ : ​StDev

of G​, m : ​Average of G

12
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

Distribution of Rewards
Users receive rewards based on the Reward Score that reflects all of their recent activities. The
percentage of rewards given to encourage user activities is calculated using the formula below.

Px =

p

Mx

n

p

∑ Mi
i

Px : R
​ eward
p:W
​ eighted

percentage for user X,​ M x : R
​ eward Score for user X,

value (adjusted by learning the ecosystem activity rate)

Of the total amount of rewards on a given day (T), user X receives rewards according to the
applicable reward percentage (P).

Rx = P x × T d
Rx : U
​ ser

X' s rewards, ​ P x : ​Reward percentage for user X,

Td : T
​ otal

amount of rewards on a given day

13
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

1.2. Service Composition
1.2.1. Personal Health Records

Chronic or incurable diseases require patients to constantly document and manage their own
health conditions. Humanscape allows users to create content such as disease-related records
and to input and manage data, e.g. symptoms, administered medication, and IoT, on a single
user profile. For example, diabetics who need blood sugar management can measure and
record their blood sugar level on their user profile on a daily basis, along with factors that
influence blood sugar, such as dietary habits and other physical changes.
Such personal health data not only helps each patient to self-manage their health but also
serves as useful sources for various services. Firstly, disease-related records and symptoms
can be shared through various content. Secondly, users who record their symptoms in detail
are more likely to be exposed to the profiles or posts of other patients with similar symptoms.
With greater usage of the services, users are provided with customized information in order to
enhance their user experience. In addition, numerous healthcare-related institutions conduct a
variety of research and marketing programs, in which patients may participate to earn HP. For
example, users could take part in pharmaceutical companies’ clinical tests, post marketing
surveillance on new drugs or medical devices, and insurance companies’ marketing programs
for recommending an insurance policy tailored to patients’ health. These institutions’ activities
based on patients’ personal health records can offer actual benefits to those with incurable
diseases and alleviate the financial burden facing their families due to insurance costs, etc. As
such, Humanscape aims to use accumulated information on patients’ health in a way that is
beneficial to the health of patients as well as humankind at large.

14
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

1.2.2. Community

Communities by Topic
Users share content, such as daily treatment records, knowhow and latest information on
various topics like diseases, symptoms and side effects in communities with specific themes,
where patients can post their personal health records directly on a bulletin board. If posts or
comments get voted, HP is given as a reward. A part of the reward is given as DP, which can be
used to donate to donation events organized by patient associations.

Communities for Patient Associations
A community is created for a patient association that is registered after a qualification process,
which allows members of the association to use the bulletin board. In a patient association
community, the administrator can post notices announcing information or events related to the
patient association, while members can share information with each other and socialize among
themselves.

Content Sharing and Support
Content shared among patients includes daily treatment records, knowhow and latest
information, as a combination of texts, images and the uploader’s health data (diseases,
symptoms and administered medicine).
Users may share contents with other users and the more responses they receive from other
users, the more opportunities they will have to receive rewards. Likewise, the Humanscape
ecosystem encourages the sharing of useful, reliable information.

15
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

1.2.3. Operation of Patient Association
Humanscape allows patient associations to register and conduct various activities for its
operation. With the exception of some large-scale patient associations, it is difficult for patient
associations to make sufficient investments in online infrastructure such as websites, as they
generally operate with membership fees and donations. In addition, patients were limited to
share their information with certain patient associations only, which resulted in a lack of online
channels to share such information, since the information was shared mostly at offline
meetings.
Humanscape aims to meet patients’ needs for online activities, by providing online platforms
organized by disease. Furthermore, Humanscape allows DP obtained through activities to be
donated to donation events organized by patient associations so as to encourage donations.

1.2.4. Participation of Institutions
Institutions registered on Humanscape after a qualification process can create an official
username. Institutions can upload various news and information, and post official replies. For
example, a pharmaceutical company can post its latest news on the bulletin board for its
products, or reply to an inquiry about possible side effects. Also, institutions can hold events
using HP, such as the recruitment of subjects for clinical trials and post marketing surveillance
for targeted patients. HP paid by institutions for such events are given to patients after
discounting some of the advertising costs incurred during the recruitment process.

1.2.5. Donations

Humanscape aims to help patients to improve their health in various ways through activities.
One of these ways involves the introduction of a donation system. Patient associations, whose
purpose is to support patients, are non-profit organizations that operate with membership fees
and donations. There are many ways for individual users to support their own patient

16
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

association, but financial contributions will serve as a foundation for patient associations to
further support their patients. Humanscape awards DP to users who actively perform activities
such as providing health-related information, allowing the user to donate financial support to
desired patient associations.

Donation Process
Users may donate some of the rewards that they receive for content. When a donation event is
designated, the DP earned for content is provided to the donation event. When a donation event
has not been designated, the user may select an event to donate to through a donation channel
and give some of their accumulated DP, HP or HUM to the selected event. In such cases, the
donation recipient will receive the donated amounts in DP. The user will obtain donation points
in proportion to the amounts donated, which are accumulated and displayed on the user’s
profile. Patient associations that have created a given donation event can convert DP to HUM
according to the event type, which may then be used for the original purpose of the donation.

Organization of a Donation Event
Donation events can be generated by the administrator account of a patient association.
Creating a donation event requires information such as organization information, the donation
type, project introduction, fundraising period, fundraising goal and donation usage plan. In order
to create a donation event, a patient association must be registered with more than 30
members, and the Activity Index of the group members must be above a certain level. When the
administrator account creates a donation event, the donation event is finally registered on the
donation channel through a vote within the patient association. The vote is determined when
the Activity Index of the voters exceeds 50 percent of the Activity Index of total members of the
patient association.

17
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

2. Use Cases

2.1. Private Sector
Targeted Advertising
Targeted advertising is currently one of the most general and effective methods of online
advertising. Some of the world’s leading IT companies such as Google and Facebook have
grown to their current scale based on earnings from targeted advertising. Humanscape aims to
provide a targeted advertising solution that designates a target group for advertising based on
patient-recorded health information to display or induce clicks on ads. This method of
advertisement will be favored by various clients such as pharmaceutical companies, insurance
companies and health supplement foods sellers. As the target is a patient group formed
around healthcare and medical topics, advertisements tailored for such topics are expected to
be more effective than in other channels.
Targeted advertisements are charged fees that contribute toward the operation of the
Humanscape Community. HP paid by clients for targeted advertising is added to the
Humanscape pool, and can be used to reward patients with HP when they record their health
information, contributing to the sustainability of the ecosystem. Later, the margin of inflation
may be partially set aside for operation funds, instead of charging advertising fees.

Recruitments for Clinical Trials
Clinical studies are based on people's participation in new diagnostic, preventive, and
therapeutic methods. The global clinical research market is valued at 40 billion dollars as of
2016 [15] and it is also estimated that 13% of total clinical research cost is used for patient
recruitment [16]. In this context, the Humanscape can bring about the following cost reduction
effects:
First, using health information accumulated in Humanscape can reduce the cost of recruiting
clinical research subjects. Recruiters can quickly screen patients who are suitable for clinical
studies based on the patient's recorded health information. Patients are more likely to respond
positively because they are asked for clinical studies that are closely related to their current
health status. According to the survey by pharmaceutical companies and clinical agencies, 80%
of respondents reported that online community or patient network is overwhelmingly effective

18
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

in mass recruitment compared to other methods such as media advertisements or posters in
hospitals.[17].
These patient group networks are similar in character to online health communities.
Patientslikeme, for example, has signed with inVentiv Health [18] for effective patient
recruitment and has affiliated with government agencies like clinicaltrials.gov[19] in order to
accelerate clinical research. According to the report issued by the Tufts Center for the Study of
Drug Development, 37% of the online recruiters for clinical research failed to recruit a sufficient
number of patients, 11% did not register a single patient, revealing a problem of low
participation in clinical studies [20]. Therefore, Humanscape ecosystem could be a good
alternative as to encouraging patient participation in clinical research.
In addition, when people are recruited from Humanscape, the rate of dropout will be lowered
and the cost will be reduced. Even if patients agreed to participate in clinical studies, they are
likely to drop out in the middle of the process if the research venue is far away from the
patient’s house or workplace or if he/she cannot fit into the schedule. With the fact that about
30% of patients give up the research halfway, appropriate compensation and information on
individual's health status proved to be effective for complete participation in clinical trials[20].
Humanscape can reduce the cost of dropout by offering appropriate compensation and
negotiating participation schedule in real time.

Post Market Surveillance(PMS)
Post market surveillance (PMS) is the safety assessment of newly launched medicines or
medical devices [21]. Because it is not possible to predict all side effects that may occur during
use of a medicine with pre-approval research conducted on a limited number of patients, the
FDA undertakes PMS and risk assessment programs[22]. More specifically, PMS is conducted
to review safety issues in closer detail and side effects that were not pre-identified by
collecting data on side effects and unintended effects from an unidentified group of patients.
Types of data used in PMS include data voluntarily submitted and recorded by patients and the
patient registry. In Humanscape, there are patients who suffer from many different diseases.
These patients record treatment effects and the side effects of their medications. Therefore,
data necessary for PMS gets accumulated in Humanscape, which can then be put to use
actively for PMS. Furthermore, by initiating surveys on patient groups within Humanscape,
more standardized information necessary for monitoring can be selectively collected.
In the US, the budget for PMS is, on average, 2.16 million dollars per case (about 2.2 billion
won) with the total cost amounting to 1.02 billion dollars (about 11 trillion won) [23].
Domestic pharmaceutical companies have also been making a significant investment in PMS.
Currently, pharmaceutical companies contact individual hospitals and other medical

19
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

institutions for PMS but Humanscape can establish itself as the platform where high-quality
information can be provided.
One problem with PMS is that it minimizes the observation period and the number of test
participants in order to receive approval for the release of new medicines as quickly as possible
[24]. In other words, while the assessment of treatment effects of the medicine can take place
effectively during PMS, it is difficult to completely guarantee the safety of the medicine. In this
regard, Humanscape can help overcome the practical limitations of PMS with data from
patients accumulated over a long period of time.

E-commerce
E-commerce is a service for trading products that assist the treatment of diseases, such as
healthcare devices, medical devices, health supplement foods and over-the-counter (OTC)
drugs. Relevant products are automatically selected and recommended based on personal
symptom records submitted by patients, and useful product information is provided to help
patients make informed purchases. In addition, patients can share their reviews of purchased
products with the community and search for products that they are interested in. In other
words, patients are able to easily and conveniently purchase products that are most relevant to
their health condition and disease, thereby effectively improving their own health. Furthermore,
as E-commerce is a service linked with the blockchain-based Humanscape Community,
brokerage fees can be reduced, helping patients toward reasonable consumption, and
guaranteeing greater transparency compared with other commerce services.

Insurance Solicitation and Sales
The Internet has emerged as the most important marketing channel for the sale of insurance
products. Insurance companies can lower their operating costs with the internet [25], which is
the most cost-effective channel, and consumers can benefit from lower premiums. According
to a research study by Bain & Company in 2015, 8% of life insurance and 10% of property and
casualty insurance worldwide is being sold online, and this is expected to increase to 15% and
23% within 3-5 years, respectively [26].
Keeping pace with such trends, Humanscape can offer more advanced types of online
insurance products to patients. More specifically, patients can not only compare and analyze
diverse insurance products at a single glance but also receive recommendations for the most
suitable insurance based on their personal information. Furthermore, the platform helps
patients to make decisions by surveying the insurance products purchased by people with
similar diseases and soliciting their feedback.
In addition, patients can benefit from lower premiums through IoT data that can be acquired by
linking the digital wellness platform and the Humanscape ecosystem. The digital wellness

20
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

platform that aims to promote health in all aspects of life with digital technology is used by
many people as it can be accessed easily regardless of time or space concerns. Humanscape
connects smartphones and wearable devices to the platform and provides services so that
users can set individual health targets and achieve them. In particular, for patients with chronic
diseases, the community can serve as an opportunity to promote healthy lifestyles via daily
activities by encouraging healthy habits suitable for the treatment of specific diseases,
separately from hospital or medication treatment. If patients regain their health, their medical
expenses decrease. As insurance companies lower premiums accordingly, patients and
insurance companies both gain economic benefits.

2.2. Public Sector
Improving the Health of Patients in Developing Countries
The blockchain-based Humanscape community may help narrow the healthcare gap between
developed and developing countries and improve the health of people in developing countries.
Compared to those of advanced nations benefiting from sophisticated healthcare services,
many countries in Africa, South America and Asia still suffer from epidemics, starvation and
water pollution. In Indonesia, for example, children under the age of five die from various
illnesses every four minutes[27]. In Africa, the spread of infectious diseases such as Ebola virus
and HIV/AIDS is not adequately controlled. According to the World Health Organization (WHO),
people from developing countries account for one third (30.7 million) of total worldwide deaths
caused by chronic diseases such as diabetes and cancer, and among them, 48 percent are 70
years old or younger [28].
International agencies and organizations are investing vast amounts of money in programs to
support drugs, medical supplies and promote the health of the people of developing countries
[29].
Despite the assistance and continued advances in the medical treatment of diseases over the
past century, developing countries still suffer from a high mortality rate due to poor health
facilities and a lack of pharmaceuticals.
Since medical problems in developing countries derive from information asymmetry, low
access, monopoly of health data by the authorities[30] and and lack of medical
infrastructure[31], however, such investment is but a temporary measure to delay the
deterioration of people's health rather than a fundamental solution.

21
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

In this context, the Humanscape ecosystem helps address the imbalance in health
information, problem of expert shortage issues and prevent people from being deteriorated by
wrong treatment. Like the case in Zambia, where the youth HIV/AIDS transmission rate is high,
the AIDS self-diagnosis rate has increased from 12% to 40% after acquiring relevant
information[32].
Therefore, the Humanscape Community helps patients in developing countries to share
information on their diseases. This allows information on infectious diseases to be obtained
quickly to reduce damage and secure access to medical care.

Public Health Crisis
Continuous monitoring of health information updated in Humanscape makes it possible to
detect health issues within the population group that may prevent health risks and minimize
damage. Based on the flow of data on the symptoms of specific diseases, we can capture the
signs of infectious diseases. In addition, the spread of the disease can be prevented by
analyzing the infection route based on the personal symptom record of the suspected infectee.

Comparative Effectiveness Research
Healthcare data in Humanscape can be used for the comparative effectiveness research to
overcome limitations of existing clinical studies and reduce medical expenditures.
A regulatory nature of current clinical studies shortens the follow-up period and fails in
reflecting actual clinical field. A way to solve these problems is to conduct a comparative
effectiveness research that identifies the most effective treatments by comparing the various
treatments and effects of the same disease. The use of health information in Humanscape
allows us to compare and analyze the effects of treatment among patients with the same
disease undergoing different procedures, thereby enabling them to compare different therapies
and find the most effective method.
In this way, health information that is shared and accumulated by Humanscape can be
effectively used for data-based comparative effectiveness studies, and helps consumers,
clinicians, buyers, and policymakers to make decisions to improve healthcare at the individual
or group level.

22
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

2.3. Research Sector
Rare and Intractable Diseases
Voluntary health information from patients may contribute in the study of rare and incurable
diseases that are difficult to obtain data samples. For example, Patientslikeme published a
paper in Nature Biotechnology in 2011. Patientslikeme refuted a paper [33] that claimed Lithium
could slow the progression of ALS published at the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) in
2008. Patientslikeme tracked the experience of 149 patients for a year to prove ineffectiveness
of lithium [34]. What is interesting is the number of patients who voluntarily offered their health
data in Patientslikeme was higher than the number of patients participating in PNAS studies
using traditional clinical testing methods [35]. In the PNAS study, lithium was administered only
to 16 patients out of 44, whereas in Patientslikeme, 348 of 4,318 ALS patients were reportedly
taking Lithium. Among those 348 patients, a total of 149 patients who met a certain condition
was analyzed for data. Relevant data accumulated in Humanscape will also be available to take
part in the research of rare and incurable diseases

Development of New Medicines and Clinical Research
It usually requires more than 10 years and over one trillion won of investment to find a potential
medicinal substance and to pass clinical research trials for developing a new medicine
[36].Because of the astronomical costs and time involved, this process has mainly been
confined to global pharmaceutical companies with sufficient capital and while the development
of new medicines for rare or incurable diseases was delayed. In order to resolve this issue,
diverse methods to change the paradigm of the development of new medicines are being
designed and one such method is utilizing artificial intelligence based on clinical data provided
by patients. Using AI could significantly reduce the cost and time required to find a new
medicinal substance via analysis of big data on health and medical services offered to patients
[37]. In this regard, incidence of side effects or the medical history of patients accumulated in
Humanscape could be actively utilized. In addition, building on the data provided by patients,
candidate medicinal substances for new tailored medicines can be developed and increase the
success rate of clinical trials by efficiently connecting with patients.

23
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

3. Technology

3.1. Blockchain Protocol
Ethereum (ERC-20), NEO, Counterparty, and EOS are widely known examples of token protocols. Most
protocols, however, cannot offer the ideal user experience in the form of a content-focused,
community-type service due to transaction costs, processing speed limits and the hierarchical design
of private keys that favor financial institutions over social media accounts.
Blockchain protocols strive to provide sufficient features for actual services from the user perspective,
of which Klaytn of GroundX and Luniverse of Lambda256 are the best examples. To promote expansion
of the platform and easy user inflow, Humanscape will introduce blockchain protocols to the
Humanscape ecosystem, taking into consideration the characteristics of each protocol and making
them convertible to HUM (ERC20) tokens.
If a blockchain protocol with great potential emerges due to active technological exchange or the
developmental progress of Humanscape outstripping the pace of performance improvements in
blockchain protocols, Humanscape may introduce and use the relevant blockchain platform to provide
seamless user service.

3.2. Performance
The practicability of the concepts set out above has been proven by Klaytn and Luniverse. Klaytn and
Luniverse, both Ethereum-based blockchains, are compatible with Ethereum’s smart contracts. In
addition, since their fees are substantially lower than that of Ethereum, the tokens used to maintain the
network can be saved, allowing more tokens to be given to users who have contributed to the
ecosystem. Smart contracts create a Klaytn Virtual Machine (KLVM), similar to an EVM in blockchains,
by supporting Turing completeness and executing contracts within the KLVM. Through this unrestricted
implementation of smart contracts, a more highly developed Humanscape ecosystem can be realized.
As for consensus algorithms, Klaytn and Luniverse use BFT (Byzantine Fault Tolerance) between
consensus nodes and PoA (Proof of Authority) between valid nodes, respectively. A small number of

24
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

nodes enables rapid engagement in creating blocks, which in turn accelerates the rates of block
generation and processing.
Baobab, the recently-released testnet for Klaytn, is expected to process over 3,000 transactions per
second on its mainnet alone. Luniverse’s mainnet is capable of processing over 2,000 transactions per
second and is designed to achieve a higher rate of TPS (transactions per second) by using a sidechain
separately.

3.3. Smart Contract
Smart Contract is a technology that allows stakeholders to conclude and implement contracts without
intermediaries using a blockchain based on the technical characteristics of a distributed ledger.
In Humanscape, rewards are given when various user-created contents(videos, texts, etc.) are
evaluated as meaningful by actual consumers. And the amount of rewards depends on those contents’
degree of contribution to the community. Smart Contract is used to ensure the reliability of data trading
during the implementation of such payment contracts.
In addition, Smart Contract is used for various types of in-service trading, verification of qualification,
and implementation of other service logic. Smart Contract is based on a Turing complete language ,
and the data collection and operations that occur outside the blockchain are executed through Oracle.

25
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

3.4. Hierarchical Structure of Service

3.4.1 Service Layer
Service Layer is an area where Humanscape’s core logic is executed and core data is saved.
Service Layer is comprised of data storage (blockchain, InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) and
hybrid) and other service logics. Patient data entering from the API layer is recorded on the
blockchain after implementing Smart Contract in Humanscape’s core.
Data handled in Humanscape can mainly be categorized into personal information, personal
health data and content shared with the community. Personal information and personal health
data are comprised of sensitive information that must be kept confidential or valuable data that
constitute patients’ assets as required by institutions, and are therefore saved encrypted in
dispersed storage areas to prevent public exposure. In order to specify the ownership of saved
data, a hash value is saved on a blockchain and mapped to prevent forgery or tampering in
outside areas including Humanscape. Content data can include large-volume data such as
images and videos, and is stored in external storage such as AWS S3 to ensure the effective

26
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

management of resources. Later, when the individual's’ right to be forgotten and their
sovereignty is fully secured, IPFS will be used to implement decentralization in more areas.
The contents and the data shared within the community include activities such as posting,
commenting, rewarding, and token donation. After the aforementioned activities are deployed
in the service and certain conditions for the execution of smart contract are defined depending
on the degree of completion and settlement, users receive or pay tokens in accordance with the
defined details.

3.4.2 API Layer
The API layer is comprised of API for the storage and search of patient data and the
development of services. The data recorded by patients is categorized through the API layer
and gains greater value, and patients can select any desired data through conditional search.
In the long term, there are plans to analyze and convert qualitative and unmeasurable data into
meaningful data, in addition to qualitative and measurable data among personal symptom
records submitted by patients.
Furthermore, the Humanscape API is designed to be available for use by third parties to allow
their services to be linked with Humanscape or to allow the development of new services linked
with Humanscape.

3.4.3 Application Layer
The application layer provides web and mobile applications to ensure easy access for patients.
The application layer provides optimal UX/UI, through which patients can use their personal
symptom records more conveniently, and an environment where users can share information
through communication with other users and naturally benefit from emotional support. Also,
the application layer provides various services such as donation and commerce services to
allow the meaningful usage of HP issued in the ecosystem.

27
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

4. Token Events

4.1. Summary
-

HUM Token

-

HUM is a token that enables basic transaction on the Humanscape blockchain. HUM can be
purchased and sold at the cryptocurrency exchanges. Humanscape will issue ERC20 tokens on
Ethereum which can be remitted to other token holders.

-

Initially, token conversion event was scheduled for existing token holders after issuing ERC20
tokens on Ethereum. Excluding HUM used for ICO, all the remaining HUM will be utilized for the
operation of Humanscape.

-

Humanscape is expected to use Klaytn and Luniverse which are compatible with Humanscape
ecosystem and services.

-

However, in case the development of Humanscape is completed ahead of the functional
improvement of the above blockchain protocols or there’s another viable blockchain protocol,
Humanscape could adopt the protocol to provide users with better services.

-

Total issue volume : 1,250,000,000 HUM

-

Standard price : 1 HUM = $ 0.02
* 2019 Aug - Carried out 100:1 ratio token swap

4.2. Allocation

28
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

5. Roadmap

2016
1Q

-

Company Incorporation - Seoul, Korea

2Q

-

Development and Launch of ‘Beautycare’, a mobile application for
aftercare services

3Q

-

Angel Investment Promotion from ‘Mashup Angels’ (Taek-Kyung Lee, CEO
and Founder of ‘Daum’)

4Q

-

Client Usage Agreement with ‘Dream Medical Group’ and ‘DA Plastic
Surgery’

2017
1Q

-

Development and Beta test of ‘Helen’, Mobile Medical Assistant

2Q

-

Official Launch of ‘Helen’

3Q

-

Follow-up Investment Promotion from ‘Magellan Technology
Investment(VC)’

4Q

-

Acquisition of 10,000 PHR Data from ‘Beautycare’ and ‘Helen’
Concept Building of ‘Humanscape’, a Health Information Ecosystem

2018
1Q

-

Whitepaper Publication
Company Incorporation - Hongkong

2Q

-

‘Humanscape’ MVP Development Begins
Pre-sale 1st, 2nd and 3rd round
Business Agreement Contract with ‘​Korean Foundation Fighting Blindness’

3Q

-

Composition of Test Groups(patients, medical experts)
Joint Research and Development Agreement with ‘Seoul Asan Medical Center
Healthcare Innovation Big Data Center’
Business Agreement Contract with ‘The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul ST.
Mary’s Hospital Smart Healthcare Center’
Expansion into Indonesian Market( Incorporation/Institute PoC)

-

4Q

-

Listed on the cryptocurrency exchange ‘CPDAX’, with the availability of
HUM/KRW trading pairs

29
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

-

Joined as the first medical sector partner for ‘Klaytn’, a blockchain protocol of
‘GroundX’, powered by Kakao
Listed on the crytocurrency exchange ‘Digifinex’, with the availability of
HUM/ETH trading pairs
Signed business agreement contract with ‘eBay Korea’ for platform inegration
and joint marketing.
Signed joint research agreement with ‘Hanyang University Medical Center’ for
patients with rare diseases.

2019
1Q

-

-

Listed on the cryptocurrency exchange ‘GOPAX’, with the availability of
HUM/KRW pairs.
MVP Release
Alpha Test

3Q

-

PoC with Global pharmaceuticals, Clinical Research Institute
Closed Beta Test
Soft Launch(Korea, Indonesia)

4Q

-

Business Model Validation
Main Service Launch(Korea, Indonesia)

2Q

-

Joined as a partner for blockchain service platform ‘Luniverse’,
Created a Youtube channel “Goodrarenews” for providing latest medical
information to patients with rare diseases
Signed MOU with Cancer Research Institute of The Catholic University of
Korea, Seoul ST. Mary’s Hospital
Signed MOU with Catholic Smart Healthcare Center of The Catholic
University of Korea, Seoul ST. Mary’s Hospital
Joined as a partner for ‘Luniverse’, a blockchain platform of Dunamu,
powered by Upbit.

30
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

6. Others
This document is written to convey specific information about the platform being planned and
developed by the Humanscape Inc. team. This document is for informational purposes only and does
not guarantee the accuracy or reliability of any information herein. The information contained in this
document has been obtained from the sources deemed reliable by Humanscape team, but the
Humanscape team does not guarantee the accuracy or suitability of such information. In other words,
the Humanscape team is not legally liable for any loss or damage arising from information related to
the company or the Humanscape platform.
The information contained in this document complies with judgement as of now and is subject to
change without notice. The Humanscape team has no obligation to revise, modify or update this
document.
Each recipient must rely solely on their knowledge, research, judgment, and evaluation of the
information in this document, and the company, employees and shareholders will not be liable for any
claims, suggestions, and information that are discussed, indicated, occurred, included or derived.
The Humanscape team has endeavored to include the accurate facts in this document, and the
estimates of the likelihood in the document are based on subjective predictions and should not be
construed as statements that represent the actual likelihood of occurrence. This document is not
intended for citizens or residents of any state, country, or other jurisdiction where distribution,
publication or use is prohibited. This document is available only at www.humanscape.io and may not be
redistributed, copied, forwarded or published to any person, in whole or in part, without the prior written
consent of the Humanscape team for any purpose.

31
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

7. References

1.

Korea Center for Disease Control and Prevention(2016). 2016 National Health and Nutrition Survey.

2.

Law for Management of Rare Diseases, Article 2 Protocol 1.

3.

Rare Diseases. [Internet]. [cited April 23 2018].
Available:​https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%ED%9D%AC%EA%B7%80%EC%A7%88%ED%99%98

4.

Patient-Generated Health Data. [Internet]. [cited April 22 2018].
Available:​https://www.healthit.gov/topic/scientific-initiatives/patient-generated-health-data

5.

McGove, Lauren et al.(2014). The Relative Contribution of Multiple Determinants to Health Outcomes,
Health Affairs. 33. no.2.

6.

Consumers’ Use of Health Apps and Wearables Doubled in Past Two Years, Accenture Survey Finds.
[Internet]. [cited April 19 2018].
Available:​https://newsroom.accenture.com/news/consumers-use-of-health-apps-and-wearables-doubledin-past-two-years-accenture-survey-finds.htm

7.

Agboola, Stephen et al., Heart Failure Remote Monitoring: Evidence From the Retrospective Evaluation of
a Real-World Remote Monitoring Program. [Internet]. [cited March 31 2018].
Available:​https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4422937/

8.

Care Beyond Walls and Wires™ Using Remote Monitoring to Enhance Patient Care. [Internet]. [cited April
26 2018]. Available:file:///Users/apple/Downloads/united-states-care-beyond-walls-and-wires.pdf

9.

Conceptualizing a Data Infrastructure for the Capture, Use, and Sharing of Patient-Generated Health Data
in Care Delivery and Research through 2024. [Internet]. [cited April 10 2018].
Available:​https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/onc_pghd_final_white_paper.pdf

10. How Does PatientsLikeMe Make Money?[Internet]. [cited Mar 10 2018].
Available:http://news.patientslikeme.com/faq-item/faq/how-does-patientslikeme-make-money
11. CDER Patient-Focused Drug Development. [Internet]. [cited April 11 2018].
Available:​https://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DevelopmentApprovalProcess/ucm579400.htm
12. Nonnecke, B, Andrews, D and Preece, J. (2004). The top five reasons for lurking: improving community
experiences for everyone. Computers in Human Behavior​ ​Volume 20, Issue 2, 201-223.

32
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

13. Patientslikeme. In Wikipedia [Internet]. [cited 30 Jan 2018].
Available:​https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PatientsLikeMe
14. The UK Strategy for Rare Diseases. [Internet]. [cited April 20 2018].
Available:​https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_dat
a/file/679123/UK_strategy_for_rare_diseases_-_implementation_plan_for_England.pdf
15. GVN. (2017). Clinical Trials Market Analysis.
Available:​https://www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-analysis/global-clinical-trials-market
16. How Much of a Trial Budget to Set Aside for Patient Recruitment. [Internet]. [cited 10 Feb 2018].
Available: h
​ ttps://www.cuttingedgeinfo.com/2010/trial-budget/
17. Yang Y. (2016). Study for Improvement of the Recruitment of Clinical Test Subjects: From the Clients
Perspective. Seoul: Yonsei University.
18. PatientsLikeMe And inVentiv Health Partner To Accelerate Clinical Trial Research. [Internet]. [cited 17 Jan
2018].
Available:​https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/patientslikeme-and-inventiv-health-partner-to-acce
lerate-clinical-trial-research-211806441.html
19. PatientsLikeMe Launches New Feature for Patients to Accelerate Clinical Trial Enrollment. [Internet]. [cited
09 Feb 2018].
Available:​http://news.patientslikeme.com/press-release/patientslikeme-launches-new-feature-patients-ac
celerate-clinical-trial-enrollment
20. Retention in Clinical Trials – Keeping Patients on Protocols. [Internet]. [cited 01 Feb 2018].
Available:​https://forteresearch.com/news/infographic/infographic-retention-in-clinical-trials-keeping-patie
nts-on-protocols/
21. Postmarketing surveillance. In Wikipedia [Internet]. [cited 05 Feb 2018].
Available:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Postmarketing_surveillance
22. Postmarketing Surveillance Programs. [Internet]. [cited 15 Feb 2018].
Available:​https://www.fda.gov/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Surveillance/ucm0903
85.htm
23. Assessing the cost burden of United States FDA-mandated post-approval studies for medical devices.
[Internet]. [cited 01 April].
Available:​https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5340422/

33
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

24. Park, B. (2009). Improvement in Post-Marketing Surveillance system for Biopharmaceuticals. Seoul: Seoul
National University.
Available:​http://www.ndsl.kr/ndsl/search/detail/report/reportSearchResultDetail.do?cn=TRKO201000014
874
25. Hwang J, Park S and Kwon O. (2014). A Study on Insurance Distribution Channels in Relation to Changes
in Business Environment. Korean Insurance Research Institute.
Available:​http://www.kiri.or.kr/pdf/%EC%A0%84%EB%AC%B8%EC%9E%90%EB%A3%8C/KIRI_20140505_
125812.pdf
26. Insurance aggregators: an overview. [Internet]. [cited 25 Jan 2018].
Available:​http://passle.insurtechcon.com/post/102dm6j/insurance-aggregators-an-overview
27. Revolutionary Change Brought About By Text Messages. [Internet]. [cited 27 Feb 2018]. [Korean]
Available:​https://blog.naver.com/unicefgarden/220032332666
28. Noncommunicable diseases and their risk factors. [Internet]. [cited Mar 30 2018].
Available:​http://www.who.int/ncds/en/
29. Health Care Systems in Low- and Middle-Income Countries. [Internet]. [cited 27 Feb 2018].
Available:​http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMra1110897
30. Convergence of AI and Blockchain Technology Provokes Medical Revolution. [Internet]. [cited 26 Feb
2018]. [Korean]
Available:​http://blog.naver.com/meri_01/221185231032
31. Vital Wave Consulting(2009). Health Information Systems in Developing Countries.
32. Shortage of healthcare workers in developing countries--Africa. [Internet]. [cited 27 Feb 2018].
Available:​https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19484878
33. Fornai F, Longone P, Cafaro L, Kastsiuchenka O, Ferrucci M, Manca M, Lazzeri G, Spalloni A, Bellio N, Lenzi
P, Modugno N, Siciliano G, Isidoro C, Murri L, Ruggieri S and Paparelli A. Lithium delays progression of
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 2008, 105(6),
2502-2057.
34. Wicks P, Vaughan T, Massagli M and Heywood J. Accelerated clinical discovery using self-reported
patient data collected online and a patient-matching algorithm. Nature Biotechnology, 2011, 29(5),
411-414.
35. Introduction and some news about Patientslikeme, 'SNS for Patients'. [Internet]. [cited 15 Feb 2018].
Available:​http://www.yoonsupchoi.com/2013/03/05/patientslikeme-the-patients-sns/

34
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

36. AI/Big Data… Change of New Drug Production. [Internet]. [cited 2 April 2018]. [Korean]
Available:​http://www.edaily.co.kr/news/news_detail.asp?newsId=01154566619143648&mediaCodeNo=2
57
37. Social Consensus Need for AI New Drug Production and ‘Patient Big Data’ Utilization. [Internet]. [cited 01
April]. [Korean]
Available:​http://www.etnews.com/20180308000197

38. Klaytn Position Paper ver 2.0. [Internet]. [Mar 2019].
Available:​https://www.klaytn.com/Klaytn_Position_Paper_ver2.0.pdf
39. Luniverse User Guide. [Internet]. [Mar 2019].
Available: h
​ ttps://guide.luniverse.io/

35
Copyright 2019. Humanscape all rights reserved. | support@humanscape.io

