Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 1 of 24

Hyperion
Spatial Consensus Driven Map of the World for Decentralized Map Economy
Prepared by:Team Hyperion
https://www.hyn.space
20 July 2018

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 2 of 24

Hyperion
Noun
1. Latin, from Greek Hyperiōn
: a Titan, son of Uranus and Gaea, and father of Eos (dawn), Selene (moon), and Helios
(sun). Later identified with Apollo, from Greek, literally “he who looks from above.”
2. an irregular-shaped outer satellite of the planet Saturn that tumbleschaotically
3. A new consensus-driven open map ecosystem created by global community

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 3 of 24

Map Chronology
“Maps, like faces, are the signature of history.” ~ Will Durant

Maps are made digital, interactive and searchable.
Map 1.0

Digital Map

Lack of openness, privacy, large-scale community
contribution.

Google Map and
Baidu Map etc.

Open data and map technology by the Open Street Map
initiative with global community support
Map 2.0

Open Map

Lack of technology superiority and social-economic
structure for community governance and incentive

Mapxus, Mapbox,
and Mapillary etc.

Coherent system design of technology, community and
economy.
Map 3.0

Consensus Map

Enabled by decentralized map technology, self-governed
community and sustainable map economy.

Hyperion

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 4 of 24

Table of Content
INTRODUCTION

5

THE POWER OF PLACE

5

PROBLEM STATEMENT

6

VISION AND PROPOSED SOLUTION

7

BRIEF HISTORY OF HYPERION

8

HYPERION MAP SERVICES
PRIMITIVES OF MAP

9
9

DMAPPER

11

DMAP

12

HYPERION MARKETPLACE

13

HYPERION PROTOCOL NETWORK

14

DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND DISCUSSIONS

14

MAPCHAIN DESIGN & OPTIMIZATION

16

SMART CONTRACTS & PERSISTENCE

17

PROGRESS AND ACHIEVEMENT

19

ROADMAP

22

TOKEN ISSUANCE MODEL

23

LEGAL REMARKS

24

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 5 of 24

INTRODUCTION
In several dimensions, the current centralized map system of the world is flawed and is ripe for disruption. Blockchain
technology – with its ability to facilitate global collaboration in an open and secure manner – has huge potential to
disrupt the status quo by underpinning the birth of a new, open, decentralized map economy that will appeal to the
mass market.
We have pioneered a new open map architecture, the Hyperion ecosystem, based on the our widely adopted open
map technology and latest advancements of Blockchain technology. This ecosystem is designed to reward everyone
with a share in the wealth they create and will ensure privacy is protected whilst hosting a new generation of
decentralized applications requiring quality map services.
This paper outlines our vision for the birth of this new transformative ecosystem capable of addressing the needs of 10
billion users and 100 billion devices. This will lead to a much more egalitarian, prosperous society where everyone
will get a share in the wealth they create.

The Power of Place
"Mobility is the fundamental essence of intelligence…[ ]. If you want to move, you must memorize and generalize.”
~ Dr Qi Lu, ex Baidu COO, CES 2017 Keynote

To better understand the significance of the Hyperion ecosystem, one must first comprehend the significance of
location data. Did you know that 80% of all business data has a location component to it1? This is not surprising given
that maps constitute the building block of mobility, providing the memory block that underpin mobility for people,
IoT devices and robots.
Some of the far-reaching impact of location data are summarized below:
1. Location data is a fundamental element for enriching business data sets with no obvious links and helps visualize
business data in familiar ways, providing more in-depth analytics. This enables companies to make smarter and
more informed business decisions.
2. Location data fuels innovation. In services that are particularly location-aware, such as Uber and Waze, accurate
location and routing are fundamental to the value they provide to users.
3. Location data and analytics has helped advance the advertising technology and marketing space. This aids with
better customer profiling and therefore targeting, and extends beyond just location-based mobile advertising.
With smartphone penetration rates on the rise, proliferation of location infrastructure, as well as the IoT tipped to go
mainstream within a few years, location data will only continue to be a growing component underpinning all business
data. To put that into perspective, the global market of location analytics worths 16.34 Billion USD by 20212 alone
not including the use of map services.

1

William Huxhold‟s 1991 book „An Introduction to Urban Geographic Information Systems‟

2

https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/PressReleases/location-analytics.asp

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 6 of 24

Problem Statement
As the fundamental building block of mobility, maps should be and remain pervasive, accurate and privacy-preserved.
However, the current map system is flawed as elaborated in the following:

Incomplete, Inaccurate and Outdated Map Data
Location data is widely distributed and long-tailed, which means that the production and maintenance of a global map
ought to be distributed by nature. However, the production of maps are currently centralized and as such, has resulted
in maps that are incomplete, inaccurate, and outdated.
Did you know that most of the Earth‟s surface lacks an address? According to the United Nations, 70% of the world is
unaddressed, including more than half of the world‟s sprawling urban developments. By outsourcing map production
to third parties, we are effectively giving them control over not only what gets shown on the map, but also the power
to dictate where we go and how we get there. In the Capitalistic 21st century era, it seems inevitable that large
companies like Google will monetize location-based searches, with either premium results or priority ordering (if it
hasn‟t done so already).

Limited Transparency, Privacy and Ownership
People have increased concerns of misuse of our location data - we have no transparency on how data were monetized
- often by the third parties in control our data. There is no true user privacy in front of map service providers that even
pseudo-anonymous data can be cross-referenced with other data to identify the user3. There is a saying that neatly
summaries this state of play, “if you are not paying for the product, you are the product.”
As popular apps harvest location data of the masses, the potential for leaking or exploiting this data has never been
higher. The recent Facebook-Cambridge Analytics scandal is case in point and has brought to our attention how the
large players have been making money off users data all along without them knowing. If everyone has data that they
own and generate, isn‟t it about time that they should directly benefit from their own data instead of just relying on
“free” services?
Furthermore, it is prohibitively expensive and cumbersome for users to build their own map service due to the high
technology barrier. Innovation and entrepreneurship are therefore stifled. We need autonomy not on just data but the
technology to provision map services at our will - not to let map companies decide what shows on the map and in
which way we use map services. In short, in a more egalitarian society, people are calling for autonomy over digital
location.

3

https://www.fastcompany.com/3068846/how-your-location-data-identifies-you-gilad-lotan-privacy

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 7 of 24

Vision and Proposed Solution
"Making maps together means piecing together collective experiences, discovering patterns, and arriving at
a collective understanding of the root causes of these shared experiences.”
~ Eli Moore and Catalina Garzón,

Hyperion organically integrates innovations of three important dimensions, coined as the Hyperion Trinity of map
technology, economy and society structures, to eventually achieve a sustainable and self-governed map economy of
the world. People are empowered to build map technology, share economical return and govern map communities.
High level dynamics of the Hyperion Trinity is illustrated in figure 1-1.

- Crowd-build to incentive quality global map data contribution and distributed system infrastructure hosting with
Hyperion Digital Location Right (HDLR) as reward, i.e., HDLR mining;

- Crowd-share to establish a sustainable decentralized map economy, in which map services fees are distributed to
HDLR owners accordingly by smart contract, i.e., HDLR dividend;

- Crowd-govern to reach consensus on technology and social-economic transition with delegated governance, i.e.,
HDLR voting. The Hyperion global community is consisted of multi-level regional communities governed by
HDLR holders delegates of respective regions.

Figure 1-1: Hyperion
Trinity

Figure 1-2: Hyperion Technology and Service
Architecture

Technology and Service Architecture (figure 1-2)

- Protocol Layer: the Hyperion Protocol Network is a global network of Hyperion Protocol Nodes with MapChain
(Hyperion Blockchain), smart contract, and trusted distributed storage. MapChain, optimized for location data,
supports cross-chain communication for enhanced interoperability and smart contract for extensibility. MapChain
natively integrates our innovative Spatial Consensus Protocol (SCP) to reach consensus of static location data
(map) and dynamic location data (localization) in a secure and verifiable manner. MapChain employs BFT + dPOS
as block producing consensus algorithm to support scalable map services and enforce a consistent delegated
governance structure of the Hyperion community;

- Service Layer: this layer includes full-stack map services with tight integration with MapChain. Specifically, it
includes map production service (dMapper), map service (dMap) and location data intelligence platform
(Hyperion Marketplace). Users can stake HYN (pay-by-inflation) to access dMapper and dMap services, and
spend HYN (pay-by-fee) for Hyperion Marketplace services;

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 8 of 24

- Ecosystem Layer: Location-based services (LBS), such as location-based social network, advertisement and
gaming, accrue value to HDLR. Hyperion will collaborate with a wide spectrum of LBS to enrich the Hyperion
ecosystem. To demonstrate the full power of Hyperion services, Hyperion will develop example LBS, e.g., a
consuming-facing map service named Titan and a location-based game.
Mission and Vision - Spatial Consensus and Autonomy over Digital Location Right
Time and space attributes are meta data. It implies that all services happen on the map. The invention of clock
provides human with the consensus of time, i.e. the Temporal Consensus. However, the ability to correctly
understand our surrounding by community, i.e. the Spatial Consensus, is constrained due to centralized control and
censorship. Our mission is to provide Spatial Consensus driven map of the world.
The need of accurate and precise Spatial Consensus, together with the highly distributed nature of map data, demands
a decentralized Relation of Production for map economy. We envision a future in which people have autonomy over
digital location - people are incentivized with Hyperion Digital Location Right reward to contribute underlying map
utilities, and use their digital location rights to share economy benefit and govern important community transitions in
a sustainable manner.

Brief History of Hyperion

Our mission to decentralize the map economy began in 2013. Dr. Isaac Zhang, upon commencing his PhD, realized
the partiality and shortcomings inherent in the centralized model of maps. Curious to solve this problem, he began
researching on a model of global open mapping crowdsourced by its people, for the people, and powered by
innovative technologies. To that effect, he founded Mapxus (Maphvie Technology Limited) in 2016. Already,
Mapxus has become the largest open indoor mapping platform in the world, serving various industries ranging from
hospitality, government, medical, and commercial sectors.
Inspired by the emerging token economy and the possible paradigm shift enabled by blockchain technology, he
envisioned for a map system that redistributes the excessive power away from centralized authorities. Realizing the
inherent limitations of existing centralized map services and open map services, Mapxus together with other Hyperion
founders decided to take it one step further, designing a global consensus-driven protocol with robust social-economic
structure that will incentivize open mapping in a manner that is quality assured, self-sustaining and self-governed.
That leads to the birth of Hyperion, the Autonomous Map that includes much more than open data and technology,
but also a sustainable and self-regulated social-economic structure. Hyperion aims to provide autonomy over digital
location, enabling everyone to build collaboratively and use better map services in an open and secure manner.
Determined to realize the vision and effect change, Hyperion was born in November 2017. Hyperion founders quickly
assembled a dedicated and passionate team who shared a similar vision and were driven to upheave the current
centralized model of mapping. Already, the Hyperion team has sought – and continues to seek – the best minds in
token economics, blockchain technology, map technology and open data marketplaces. It is upon this robust and
determined foundation that Hyperion will soon emerge as the thought leader and strongest advocate in open mapping.

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 9 of 24

HYPERION MAP SERVICES
Primitives of Map
In an abstract sense, a map is a symbolic depiction emphasizing the relations amongst elements of some space. The
map we use everyday generally refers to geographic maps that describe the distribution of location-determined
information in relation to physical space. In the context of Hyperion, a map is a collection of location-indexed
information. Maps can be broadly categorized into physical map and semantic map, which represents maps of
physical quantities such as visual and wireless signal, and maps of usage data, respectively. Some examples of these
two types of data are shown in the Table 1. A branch of Maps is built for human, i.e. consumer maps for people to
find place, find people and find things. consumer maps suffer from map data that are incomplete (large unmapped
public indoor space) and inaccurate (fast-changing data especially for POI). Another branch of maps is built for robot,
i.e., HD Map normally by hybrid SLAM technology4. HD MAP are increasingly more important due to the wide
spawn of robotic devices such as drones and self-driving vehicles. Primary challenges of HD Map are the sheer cost of
map production and lack of an open global database (500 billion to 1 trillion miles driven data to train self-driving
model5). The OneMap alliance6 of self-driving vehicles suppliers proposed to make a harmonized global HD Map
database for pervasiveness, openness and cost reduction.

TABLE 1- CATEGORY OF MAPS
Category

Data Type

Example Usage

Example Methods of Data Production

Physical

Vector

Digital Map

Manual/auto sketching, parsing from other
data

Signal

Wireless Positioning

Survey-based (Supervised learning) or
machine-learnt (unsupervised learning)

Visual

Street/scene view, visual positioning,
AR/VR

Computer Vision and vSLAM

HD MAP

Robotics (Self-driving, drones etc)

Computer Vision and SLAM

Usage

Location trace and comments for data
analytics, extracting real-time traffic
etc.

Using map applications or applications
with map SDK

Point of
Interest (POI)

Search, online-to-offline services,
analytics

Manual editing, data mining from test,
image and other data sources

Semantic

4

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping

Nidhi Kalra and Susan M. Paddock, “Driving to Safety: How Many Miles of Driving Would It Take to Demonstrate Autonomous Vehicle
Reliability?”, RAND Corporation, Apr 12, 2016
5

6

https://unwire.hk/2018/05/25/onemap-alliance-maps-for-autonomous-car-2020/life-tech/auto/

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 10 of 24

Location Service and Tradable Data
The Services layer is consisted of three main modules, namely dMapper, dMap and Hyperion Marketplace. All
location data generated within the Service layer are tradable. We coin these data as Location-Tradables. The overall
service flow (Figure 2) are as follows:
- Registered mappers can use dMapper (decentralized mapping tools) for mapping to capture raw physical location
data, the Captured Location-Tradables, submit to dMapper to process into the Map-ready Location-Tradables,

which are ready for Map use. Mappers have full ownerships of the data they produced - that they can set them as
open, private data for sale or regulated data for special use cases.
- dMap (decentralized map services) consumes Map-ready Location-Tradables and publishes full range of map
services such as routing, map search and visualization. dMap will record user usage data, the Usage Location-

Tradables, upon the consent of users and store for later usage.
- All Location-Tradables are persisted in Hyperion Protocol Network securely in a privacy-preserved manner. The
Hyperion Marketplace publishes Location-Tradables for user to query using the native MapChain Smart Contract
(MSC) built into Hyperion Marketplace. Hyperion Market also exposes programmable native contracts and highlevel applications such as a configurable location-based advertisement platform.
-

Figure 2: Overview of Location Services and Location-tradable

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 11 of 24

dMapper
Decentralized Mapping Services, dMapper, is a mapping tool suit for fast mapping by everyone. The idea is to make
mapping simple - the simpler mapping is for everyone with consumer electronic devices such as Smartphone and
drones, the more people can provider map data and thus the more complete and updated of the map database.
dMapper has a dMapper HD version for High Definition Map construction for robotic devices e.g. self-driving cars
and drones with integrated mountable mapping device on cars and drones.

Token Model
Map data produced by dMapper are recored as transaction (Map Block) on chain, owned by the mappers themselves.
The Map Block content describe the map data and the metadata of the Map Block. The value of Map Block is
determined automatically if the contents of Map Block can be validated by algorithm, or evaluated using crowd
curated model if otherwise. Non-validated Map Block contents will be separated into a new database branch and
would not be merged into main branch until positively validated.
The crowd curated model, Map Block Test, is a generalized version of A/B test with time duration constraints - that
dMap serves different branches map data for different users to rate at the scene. Users rates are collected over time to
proof the test of time of the Map Block content. With enough user rates for the Map Block Tests, system will compute
a value of the Map Block for reference of token distributions later on.
Mappers can be paid in two schemes: (1) instant payment contract that transfers tokens to mapper for data buy-andsell, which is equivalent to transferring ownership of the Map Block to others by signing on the buy-and-sell contract
(2) Deferred Sharing Contract (DSC) that grants mappers an ongoing share of the dMap token revenue based on the
content of their Map Block. DSC is valid until the Map Block contents are invalidated afterward (Change of
environment). DSC model incentives people to contribute Map Block on the early stage. All of functions related to
Map Block evaluation, ownership transferring and payment schemes are all implemented on MSC for self-regulating
and sustainable mapping on the globe.

Primary Features
dMapper are mainly characterized by following features:
- Unified Open Mapping Schema: dMapper will devise a flexible and effective map data representation compatible to
Open Street Map (OSM) schema.
- Decentralized mapping by everyone: dMapper features are accessible by consumer-grade electronic devices e.g.
smartphones, personal computers and drones. Full spectrum quality mapping: dMapper is simple to use and most of
the mapping process are automated. All data types included in the Table 1 can be produced using dMapper.
- Larger open mapping community: dMapper connects with OSM mapping community - over 4 million registered
mappers and large ecosystem players like Mapbox, Mapxus and Mapillary.

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 12 of 24

dMap
Decentralized Map Services, dMap, deliver full range of map services (indoor and outdoor seamless localization,
search and routing etc.) for consumers, enterprise and robots. dMap can be accessed in forms of API and SDKs (web,
mobile, unity) or purpose-built hardwares. dMap has a dMap HD branch for robotic devices such as drone and selfdriving cars. Hyperion will develop a consumer-facing map application, Titan, to demonstrated the use cases and
exploit the underlying power of native MSC.

Token Model
Users need Pulse to consume dMap services. Pulse is generated monthly, with a dynamic ratio, based on the amount
of HYN users stake for dMap. Unused Pulse by the end of the month would be emptied, and excessive use of Pulse
will halt the service with a 5 day extension for users to increase the stake for dMap.
dMap meters the use of following resources and compute the Pulse consumptions accordingly:
- The number of transaction recorded on MapChain;
- The number of API calls grouped by map functions used;

Primary Features
dMap are mainly characterized by following features:
- Open and secure service: We will open source dMap, both client side to back-end codes on MSC. Privacy related
service such as localization, location-based search and recommendation will be implemented as native MSC to
fully exploit the privacy-preserved featuresof MapChain. MapChain supports reproducible and verifiable proof of
timestamped localization, the SpaceTime Verification (STV), that provides zero knowledge proof of location and
allow data owner to validate it afterward. Example uses of SpaceTime Verification include verifying the location
attribute of location-based comment to avoid fake comment, and verifying the physical presence of users to claim
location-based coupons or received location-based advertisements .
- Pervasive and accurate maps: Map data are intrinsically distributed and long-tailed. With incentivized decentralized
mapping with help of dMapper, map data are expected to be more complete and updated.
- Aligned incentives: With the consent of dMap users, dMap will publish usage data as Location-Tradables to
Hyperion Marketplace for monetization in a secure and privacy-preserved manner. dMap users will received token
rewards upon existence of completed transaction of their usage data. For example, a third party can registers a
deferred, conditional and token-staked MSC for location-based advertising. The MSC is completed automatically if
a SpaceTime Verification of fitting target is generated and token staked in the MSC will be distributed as a
transaction to the viewer of the advertisement.

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 13 of 24

Hyperion Marketplace
Hyperion Marketplace can be considered as a collection of location services other than those included in dMap (map
usage) and dMapper (mapping). It is built on top of native MSC and provides interface for users to interact via
browser or programmatically via API or MSC.Hyperion Marketplace mainly provides two broad streams of services:
(1) location data: curation and trading of Location-Tradables; (2) location intelligence: location-based advertising,
geo-fencing, real-time tracking and triggered events etc.
Design principles of Hyperion Marketplace are:
- Discoverability: the ability to identify, promote and curate location data and intelligence;
- Transactability: the ability to reach transactional agreement of data and service;
- Verifiability: the ability to prove that data were untampered, computation were correctly executed and transactions
were completed

Token Model
Token models of Hyperion Marketplace services vary from case to case. However, there are guiding principles - that
for transaction of ownership transfer (e.g. buying Location-Tradables), the new owner should pay-by-fee, and that for
transactions of service usage, the user can pay-by-fee (e.g. advertising) or use-by-staking (e.g. data analytics). The
actual token model depends on the legal contract accompanied in the MSC performing the transaction.

Primary features:
Primary features of Hyperion Marketplace services include:
- Location data: Provides discovery, analytics, curation and trading tool suits of Location-Tradables.
- Location intelligence: Provide a collection of native MSC of location-based intelligence and events support.
Example usages include location-based advertising platform, location-based gaming and location-triggered events;
- Transparency on Blockchain: Hyperion Marketplace is built on native MSC so all transactions are easy to audit and
verifiable by all parties.

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 14 of 24

HYPERION PROTOCOL NETWORK
Design Principles and Discussions
Hyperion is built to underpin a global decentralized map economy in which interests of stakeholders are well-aligned
and everyone has the autonomy to access the utility of Hyperion, that is, pervasive and autonomous location and map
services. The overall design goal of Hyperion Protocol Network (HPN) is to power the aforementioned location and
map services in an open, censorship-resistant and fault-tolerant manner.
Usability& Performance
Map services should be low-latency, low-cost, high-availability and secure and it is challenging to provider the service
level at global scale. As reported7, Tencent serves over 50 billion localization requests per day for over 600 millions
users in various contexts such as social network and car hailing services etc. With linear scaling assumption to 2
billion8 global users, the number of localization requests exceeds 165 billions a day, equivalent to roughly 2 million
Transaction Per Second (TPS) if all requests run on Smart Contracts. It also reports that nearly one third of searches of
Google are location based queries9.
Extensibility &Interoperability
Map is the greatest common denominator of location-based applications such as Uber and Foursquare etc. Pokemon
Go is a prime example of location-based service built on primitive map data. Other applications may want to develop
location-triggered events based on dMap services. It requires HPN to be able to support partners to flexibly program
Smart Contract based on the native location functionalities implemented as Native Smart Contracts (NSC) that can be
called as inline function in other Smart Contracts.
For interoperability with other native Blockchain, HPN supports cross-chain communication which requires the ability
to bi-directionally verify existence of transactions in a provable secure manner. The cross chain design will also
enhance system throughput by side-chains or off-chain channels via secure state synchronization across chains.
Decentralization & Governance
Scaling Blockchain system is difficult in a full decentralization and secure setting as discussed in the Blockchain
scalability trilemma10, albeit with years of efforts in both academic and industry down the path. MapChain, the native
Blockchain system of HPN, is of no exception. Latest open research results such as Elastico 11 , ByzCoin 12 and
RsCoin13 exhibit different trade-off preferences of the Trilemma setting.

7

https://hr.tencent.com/news_detail.php?id=244

8

https://www.theverge.com/2017/5/17/15654454/android-reaches-2-billion-monthly-active-users

9

http://www.thesempost.com/one-third-mobile-searches-local-queries/

10

https://multicoin.capital/2018/02/23/models-scaling-trustless-computation/

11

L. Luu, V. Narayanan, C. Zheng, K. Baweja, S. Gilbert, and P. Saxena. A Secure Sharding Protocol For Open Blockchains. In Proceedings of
the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS ‟16, pages 17–30, New York, NY, USA, 2016. ACM.

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 15 of 24

However, from the perspective of HPN, decentralization is not an objective itself, but a feature for other system
design goals: censorship resistance, open participation and fault-tolerance. Importantly, decentralization is a
spectrum and increased degree of decentralization often incurs higher costs, as demonstrated in the sheer cost of
mining Bitcoin. We consider having each and every transaction validated by a large node network is both unrealistic
and unnecessary. MapChain scales throughput and reduces latency by using only as much decentralization as
necessary to maintain useful levels of openness, censorship resistance and fault tolerance.
Moreover, architectural decentralization does not necessarily guarantee political decentralization14 - they are often

misaligned that the block production in Bitcoin and Ethereum, albeit with complete architectural decentralization
protocol design, is far more concentrated than commonly thought15. The inherent political structure of Blockchain
network should be taken into design consideration that demands a coherent high-level design of technology and a
fitting social-economical structure with proper incentive scheme to mobilize and regulate collective community
behaviors. Importantly, a formal governance process is required to prevent informal governance devolving the
network into gridlocks, e.g., forking or inability to upgrade protocol.
To sum up, governing design principles of HPN include:
- Usability & performance: support billions of users with low-latency, low-cost and highly available services with
native security and privacy-preserved features;
- Extensibility & Interoperability: support Smart Contract with native location functionality and secure and provable
cross-chain communication;
- Decentralization & Governance: achieve long-term censorship resistance, open participation and fault tolerance via
coherent and organic design of technology and social-economic structure.

12

E. Kokoris-Kogias, P. Jovanovic, N. Gailly, I. Khoffi, L. Gasser, and B. Ford. Enhancing Bitcoin Security and Performance with Strong
Consistency via Collective Signing. In Proceedings of the 25th USENIX Conference on Security Symposium, 2016.
13

G. Danezis and S. Meiklejohn. Centrally Banked Cryptocurrencies. 23rd Annual Network & Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS),
Feb. 2016.
14

https://medium.com/@VitalikButerin/the-meaning-of-decentralization-a0c92b76a274

15

https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.03998.pdf

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 16 of 24

MapChain Design & Optimization
MapChain is built on top of academic-grounded works and integrate latest industrial best practice, protocol design and
system tooling from continuous rigorous experimentations. Important design decisions of MapChain are as follows:
Block Producing Nodes &MapChain Core Network
BFT + dPOS. BFT is for improving the robustness and shortening the time to finality (1s) and dPOS is for providing a
incentivized, liquid and representative model for the requirements of global token holder suffrage. The model
provides performance level of federated chains while ensuring open participation and censorship resistance by token
voting of eligible delegates.
Keepers of the Hyperion Protocol Community will host a global distributed MapChain Core Network of 15 active
Block Producers and 30 idle Block Producers in case the failure of active Block Producers. The MapChain Core
network is built on a secure underling Secure Communication Layer, an protocol agreed on and maintained keepers to
provide secure and fast communication. The idea is to shield block producing nodes from potential attacks and
decrease the attack surface to a minimum required level (fully meshed, P2P private tunnel and etc.).
Other System Nodes & MapChain Access Network
In addition to the MapChain Core Network, keepers will also host a MapChain Access Network of auxiliary systems
to provide an extra security layer of request filtering and buffering, and a place for block producers to establish their
credentials to the community. Public request to block producers are all filtered by a hardened API Node with private
and secure communication to block producing nodes. API Nodes need to be protected from network attacks, e.g.,
DDoS attacks, and have sufficient processing and networking capability to preprocess and queue public requests to
the block producers.
MapChain Access Network also include Query Nodes and Validating Nodes. The Query Node maps blockchain state
into traditional database for scalable read access and easy maintainability and resolve the need for applications to run
through the blockchain full history themselves. The Validating Node tracks the validity of transactions on blockchain
signed by blocker producers and report suspicious behaviors for the community for token reward.

Parallelization and Cross Chain Verification
Parallel chain is an effective pattern for scaling transaction throughput by dividing transactions to different chains to
process separately. Fast cross chain transaction validation is enabled by Light Client Validation. Light
client,implemented as a Native Smart Contract, is baked into the protocol level to allow cross-chain transaction
verification without having to process the entire blockchain. Light client verifies the existence of transactions on other
chain and take actions accordingly. With a 1s transaction finality, a cross chain action can finish in 3s.
MapChain employs message based16 architecture rather than a state based architecture to improve system scalability.
It is easier to parallelize transactions if Blockchain is designed as a log of actions combined with deterministic logic

16

https://steemit.com/blockchain/@dantheman/blockchains-should-be-designed-like-massively-multiplayer-games

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 17 of 24

for generating and verifying states, than to record a log of state changes on Blockchain. States can be replayed and
verified by going through the message history.

Protocol Level Account Support
In addition to general system specifications, such as low latency, high availability and security, protocol layer user
friendly account support is crucial for success of decentralization applications. Features include human-readable
username, recoverable accounts and fine-grained function control. Users have complete control of their own private
keys, while also having recourse in the case that their keys are stolen by invoking multi-signature account restoring
procedures.

Easy Upgrade and Bug Fix
A preferable design pattern is to separate bare-bone block producing logic and other native functions e.g. token,
delegated voting. By moving non block producing logics to NSC, the community has greater flexibility to update the
network without a hard fork. Code update, agreed by the community, can be propagated to the main net automatically
by enforcing an on-chain governance pattern and therefore allowing the system to evolve faster.

Transaction Compression
Reducing the size of transactions can improving system throughput and block size, reduce time for state
synchronization and reduce cost of Blockchain operation. Examples include the Smart Contract codes, ABI
specification and large text or media content. The general idea is to prune contents that are irrelevant to Blockchain
states after a block is immutable. This proves that the content was once known without the need to store the contents
on chain forever. Segregated Witness can used to keep large contents as segregated data while putting the digital
digest of data as hash on Blockchain.

System Optimization
High-performance message streaming is an important feature of high throughput distributed systems. We will refer to
the implementation of Reliable Messaging to Millions of Users 17 to a solution to handle millions of concurrent
connections and support a reliable notification service despite server failures and network disconnections.

Smart Contracts & Persistence

17

https://arxiv.org/pdf/1712.09876.pdf

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 18 of 24

MapChain supports high-performance Smart Contract with tight integration with location Oracles. Location Oracle
index data with optimized location-based schema and provides trusted data feed for Smart Contracts on MapChain.
Smart contracts are registered on MapChain and support atomic, inline and deferredactions. Smart Contracts are pure
and safe without side-effects that do not share working memory be default.
Contracts are written with Web Assembly Virtual Machine (WASM) and compiled into a canonical bytecode format
that nodes can retrieve and execute. Each Smart Contract must be accompanied by aContract that defines the legally
binding terms and conditions of the contract. It is important to note that MapChain is a message-based system with
deterministic logic. All non-deterministic Smart Contract behaviors such as floating point operations are needed to be
sanitized. For example, Smart Contract library should include support for software determined floating point number
generator.
Native MSC is broadly classified into four streams: (1) system: system level behavior such as token transfer, account
management, messaging and light client validation etc.; (2) real-time location: continuous tracking or event driven
models such as geo-fencing and location-based advertisement; (3) data management: curate location data via Token
Curation Registry (TCR) 18 or querying location-based data and spatial aggregation queries; (4) cryptography
primitive: Zero Knowledge Proof (zkSNARK) and Secure Multiparty Computation etc. (2) and (3) both require tight
integration with location oracles feeding trusted data securely.
MapChain provides a persisting API to store states across sessions - contract can share states among actions with
flexibly schema for data abstraction. Logs of produced blocks are stored locally on the block producing nodes and
synced over the block producer network via the native state synchronization mechanism of MapChain. Large files like
images and map data are stored in fault-tolerant distributed object storage and database. Data in the distributed
database and file storage are synchronized and verified across Block Producer keep network via a oracle network
consensus layer. Contracts can query location data via the interface of location Oracles for trusted and verifiable
computation in a secure manner.

18

https://medium.com/coinmonks/token-curated-registry-tcr-design-patterns-4de6d18efa15

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 19 of 24

PROGRESS AND ACHIEVEMENT
In year 2016, Mapxus was founded with the vision to build a global open indoor map platform via crowdsourcing,
enabled by technology innovations to make mapping simple, for everyone. The vision of Mapxus is best illustrated in
figure 3 that a child can be an eligible mapper using Mapxus‟s tools and build useful maps as shown in Figure 4.

Figure 4: Screenshot of Mapxus map services

Figure 3: Centralized and decentralization mapping

Already, to our knowledge, Mapxus has become the largest crowdsource open indoor mapping platform of the world
with exemplary use cases in many sectors such as healthcare, first responder, commercials and location-base gaming.
Mapxus extends the previous research works since year 2013 and serves as the launchpad of Hyperion - to ensure
technology superiority in map services and drive early growth of global map communities.

Technology and Product
Mapxus provides technology in two dimensions: mapping and map use, which are the basis of dMapper and dMap of
Hyperion. With the mapping tools, anyone with smartphone is empowered to become a cartographer, capable of
producing quality map data in full spectrum: vectorial, signal and visual data. Raw data are captured and processed
with the mapping engine in the cloud to produce useable maps and related map features.
Mapxus is one of a few companies with full spectrum of map services, covering indoor and outdoor areas. Map data
can be accessed via cross platform SDKs (IOS, Android and Web) providing map services such as seamless
positioning, map rendering, search, routing and panoramic visual view.

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 20 of 24

Growth of Data Coverage
Since Mapxus released the mapping tool suite to partners on Aug 2017, volume of data started to surge and now
already has covered indoor areas of over 1300 buildings with over 60 million square meters space coverage (Figure
5), over a few countries and regions in Asia (Figure 6). The primary focus of the first year growth to cover Asia
market and dominate a few developed regions (e.g. Hong Kong) for city-scale open map demonstration. The market
of indoor maps for consumer applications is still a blue ocean. To illustrate, Mapxus has mapped 728 commercial
buildings in Hong Kong - about 10 times as the indoor maps found on Google Map (about 70 on June 2018)

.

Figure 6: Datacoverage by region and city in Asia

Figure 5: Growth of data coverage

Selected Use Cases
Following use cases are selected for their effective demonstrations of map functions and application domain.
- Hong Kong Internation Airport (HKIA): HKIA is one of the largest (with over 1 million square meters in total) and
busiest passenger gateway of the world. It is challenging to find ways and places in HKIA especially for passengers
in hurry. The primary feasters of maps used in HKIA is indoor positioning, route planning, POI search and visual
view, as shown on Figure 7. Keywords include large indoor spaces, location search and routing
-

- .

Figure 7: Demonstration of map use in HKIA

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 21 of 24

- Government of a city in China: It is essential importance to have indoor and outdoor location visibility for routine
operations of patrollers and emergence of first responders. Primary feature, in addition to generic indoor and
outdoor map functions, this use cases emphasis of the change management of location intelligence (Figure 8).
Patrollers update the visual views of the area on a weekly basis and the object detection modules identify change of
object of interest (e.g.. fire hydrant) automatically.

Keywords include seamless indoor and outdoor, first

responder, location intelligence

-

Figure 8: Indoor and outdoor seamless map services

- Augmented Reality (AR) gaming in Melaka, Malaysia: Mapxus maps 10 shopping malls and roads connecting the
malls, as the pilot area of city-scale AR gaming of Melaka. Map data will be rendered with Unity platform to build
the background context of the game like the world of Pokemon Go. Enabling functions of this use case are the open
and interoperable map data, and visual positioning system to align the visual world with the physical world in both
indoor and outdoor environment, which is a differentiating feature from Pokemon Go only available for outdoor
environment. Keywords include AR Gaming, interoperable map data, visual positioning system
- Smart watch seamless tracking in Hong Kong: Mapxus develops a smart watch solution integrated with positioning
SDK to provide seamless indoor and outdoor tracking services. Users put smart watch on people they care, such as
children, elders and visually-impaired people. Keywords include seamless positioning (indoor and outdoor), IoT

device integration

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 22 of 24

ROADMAP
Infrastructural Capacity Building
2013 Q3: Start of research on building global open map system via decentralized mapping
2016 Q3: Mapxus,an open decentralized indoor mapping platform, was founded
2017 Q3: Launch of mapping tools for decentralized mapping with partners
2017 Q4: Launch of full range map services and start of research on building high performance Blockchain
2018 Q1: Formation of founding teams of Hyperion
2018 Q2: Research and Development of Hyperion Map Services and MapChain

Hyperion Early Stages and Beyond
Code Name

Galatic

Time

Hyperion Map Service Roadmap

Hyperion Protocol Network Roadmap

2018
Q3

System development & map community
building

System development & Blockchain community
building

2018
Q4

Release dMapper for public use

Standalone test environment of MapChain

2019
Q1

Release Titan

Pilot-scale test network of MapChain

2019
Q2

Release Hyperion Marketplace

Testing and security audit of MapChain

2019
Q3

Release dMap for public use

2019
Q4

Release location-based advertising platform on
Hyperion Marketplace

Stable MapChain 1.0 deployment

2020
Q1

Release dMap integration with IoT devices

Global Blockchain Developer Program

2020
Q2

Release a location-based game

2020
Q3

Release dMapper HD

2020
Q4

Release dMap HD for drones and UAVs

Stellar

Planetary

Release MapChain 2.0

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 23 of 24

TOKEN ISSUANCE MODEL
“Show me the incentive and I will show you the outcome” - Charlie Munger

The design of token issuance model should balance long-term and short-term commitments of teams and
communities, drive fast growth of Hyperion ecosystem, achieve anti-speculation and eventual self-governance by
community.
Totally 10 billion Hyperion Token (HYN) will be issued in form ERC20 as placeholder and mapped to native HYN
on Hyperion MainNet once activated. The hard cap of proposed annual inflationis 3% as incentives to keepers of the
Hyperion Protocol Network and community programs. The exact number of inflation can be adjusted upon
community consensus. We hereby define T0 as the day of the first HYN crypto exchange enlistment.

Initial Token Distribution
Sales & floating (35%):
- Seed round (5%): 20% release (T0 - 3 days); 20% release (T0 + 6 months) ; 30% release (T0 + 9
months); 30% release (T0 + 12 months) ;
- Private sale (10%): 40% release (T0 - 3 days); 20% release (T0 + 6 months) ; 20% release (T0 + 9
months); 20% release (T0 + 12 months) ;
- Other rounds (20%): 40% release (T0 - 3 days); 20% release (T0 + 6 months) ; 20% release (T0 + 9
months); 20% release (T0 + 12 months) ;
Founders & team (16%):
- 4 years vesting, 22% release (T0 + 6 months), and 6% release for every 3 months afterward;
Community and Marketing (15%):
- Incentive programs, airdrop, partner networks and global evangelists etc.
Global Developer Program (8%):
- 4 years vesting, 6.25% release every 3 months after T0. Open source developer and technology
collaboration etc.
Foundation Reserve (26%) :
- 6% as long-term incentive to distinguished contributors. 4 years vesting, 6.25% release every 3
months after T0.
- 20% reserved for driving network growth, anti-speculation, merge and acquisition and etc. 3 years
vesting, 8.33% release every 3 months after T0.

Confidential

Hyperion White Paper v1.15

Page 24 of 24

LEGAL REMARKS
We believe the only way to create a sustainable business in the current cryptocurrency climate is to tackle legal issues
head on, working in close co-operation with local governments and judicial authorities, emulating the highly
successful model recently set out by Uber UK. This is particularly necessary in light of the potential use local
authorities could have for our services (e.g. first responders).
For these reasons, Hyperion has developed its legal and technological teams in parallel, to create a cohesive long-term
legal strategy that will allow this technology to proliferate globally, with immediate legitimate utility to users and
clarity for investors.
Additionally, we appreciate the need for privacy in mapping within certain spheres, and the subsequent need to ensure
certain data is not shared or sold on the network. We have dealt with this by ensuring that some forms of data can only
be distributed between members of closed groups who have authority to access said information. This leaves users and
investors with peace of mind, faith in our business as a whole, including our ethics, and ensures we avoid pitfalls in
gathering or managing data as exemplified in the recent issues surrounding Cambridge Analytica.
Hyperion benefits from having our legal and technical teams closely linked, which has allowed us to develop internal
processes for ensuring compliance. This includes regular internal audits of data, with expeditious removal or
suspension of unwanted material. Our early emphasis on legal strategy means we are not only ready to comply with
current legislation, but are already working on the potential effects of future regulations that we anticipate.

Confidential

