Smart advertising transaction token

W h i t e pa p e r
v. 5
05/02/2020

Contents
01
02

Who Are We ?

3

understanding online advertising

7

The enormous potential of the online advertising market

8

B. A few definitions to understand advertising

11

C. The different online advertising business models

12

03

A SMART CONTRACT TO govern ADVERTISING TRANSACTIONS

13

A. Selecting the publishers

13

B. Quantifying the results of an advertising campaign

14

C. Building trust, preventing fraud

15

D. Reducing costs, speeding up transactions

16

E. A complete and decentralized tool

16

04

OPERATION OF THE SaTT SMART CONTRACT

17

A. Advertisers

18

B. Publishers

19

C. API - Oracles

20

D. SaTT Ecosystem

21

05

Crowdsale and initial Distribution of SaTT Tokens

23

A. Progression of the crowdsale & bonus

24

B. Distribution of the SaTT

25

C. Percentage of operating expenses

26

06
07
08
09
10
11
12

Faq

27

roadmap - TO INFINITY AND BEYOND

28

SaTT is live

29

BUYING SaTT EXCLUSIVE PRODUCTS

30

A STRONG, MOTIVATED TEAM

31

Disclaimer

34

Contact

39

2

01

Who are we ?

ATAYEN, Inc is an American company specializing in developing applications dedicated for business
pages on Facebook and other social networks.
Facebook application developers since 2008, Gauthier Bros and Stephanie Clement founded ATAYEN,
Inc. in 2014 to further develop the marketing application technology they invented to improve business
pages on Facebook.
ATAYEN, Inc.’s Iframe suite of apps allows customers to establish an effective communication hub
using simple tools

Iframe suite of apps by AtayeN, INC.
Contact Form

Newsletters

Adds a customizable contact form
to a Facebook page and automates
responses.

Provides a registration form for
Facebook pages to faciliate customer
contact and communication (emails,
phone...).

Automatic Newsletter

Coupons App

Generates newsletters automatically
from Facebook page news feeds and
sends them to its contact list.

Create custom coupons to reward
Facebook or other social network
communities.

Iframe Apps

Add a Link

Inserts any internet content (html,
webs ite ...) into a Facebook page.

Adds custom links that redirect users to
specific pages.

Store App

Sharing Tools

Creates or imports custom stores
into a Facebook page for online sales.

Allows customization of the appearance
of shares on social networks while
providing performance statistics (clicks).

Return to Contents page

3

The challenge of revolutionizing advertising via Blockchain
By studying the 4 million pages that use our applications, all our customers have the same goal,
maximizing the penetration and awareness of their brands, products, services, news and promotional
offers.
We decided to provide a service to make the interaction of online marketing tools more transparent
(Facebook, Instagram, Youtube, Twitter, Snapchat...).

Some examples:
• Mercedes releases its latest video on the Auto Journal
Facebook page.
• Amnesty International appears in the CNN Newsletter.
• Nike publishes a post sponsored by Kobe Bryant on Instagram.
• L’Oreal has products tested by the latest fashion influencers
so they post them on their Youtube channels.
Until now, this was all done by humans in agencies. They hold
the cards. The opportunity was obvious: create a secure index of
advertising offers!
While searching for the best solution, we realized blockchain would
be perfect for our needs.
It is a decentralized and distributed database that guarantees the
integrity of data and transactions.
We will use it hold the data securely and verify payment once the
terms of a contract are fulfilled.
This allows us to offer a powerful and reliable tool to the development
community to take care of advertiser / publisher relationships.
The idea of ​SaTT was born (Smart Advertising Transaction Token).
The SaTT is a «utility token» based on blockchain technology that
allows exchange of advertising and audience payment.
SaTT is regulated by a Smart Contract which lists advertising offers
with all data held securely in the Ethereum blockchain.
The Smart Contract sets the conditions for participation in
campaigns, quantifies the success, and guarantees the final
renumeration.
The Ethereum blockchain is fast, inexpensive, safe and versatile
allowing distribution of rewards on the internet traffic market more
equitably by removing all the constraints induced by centralized
intermediaries.

Return to Contents page

4

atayen,inC

Developing awesome apps since 2011

ATAYEN

A FEW FIGURES

OVER ONE MILLION PERSO PAGES
CANADA
3,495

RUSSIA
8,213

FRANCE : 116,702
UK : 99,092
ITALY : 22,743
GERMANY : 21,739
SPAIN : 20,925

USA
460,178

USED IN

JAPAN
3,329

121

TURKEY
19,809

COUNTRIES
BRAZIL
27,468
LATIN AMERICA
52,836

SAUDI
ARABIA
15,863

515,505
OVER
4 MILLION
BUSINESSES

INDONESIA
20,533
THAÏLAND
14,162

130,140

COMMUNITIES

MUSIC ARTISTS

228,161

104,990

PERSONAL PAGES

PRODUCTS /
SERVICES

115,730

482,832

COMPANIES

APPLICATIONS

207,799
STORES

100,753
WEBSITES

Used by the world top brands

4 Million facebook pages

Return to Contents page

7

02

Understanding Online Advertising

Advertisers have many tools to publish, quantify and analyze their advertising campaigns. They can
spread their messages through:
Brand and co-brand websites
Presence on community networks
Rich Media Campaigns
Content sponsorship, brand content, marketing influencers

Digital strategy must be built and measured according to several problems as :
How can they quantify the return on investment in the current environment?
Accurate data to evaluate the effectiveness of digital actions with regard
to campaign objectives in terms of impact on the brand (awareness,
memorization, brand preference...) and/or performance (increased traffic,
online sales, offline sales, generation of opportunities or leads...).

Media buying strategies and communication budgets based on evaluation of
the Web’s contribution to the media plan (coverage of the target, repetition of
messages, complementarity of the media).

Community engagement through content creation, participation in branding
and social media outreach.
Accurate data around that define the engagement and interaction, intimacy
and influence of the clients.

Understanding customer behavior, needs and expectations. Qualification
of leads from behavior data, tools and third-party databases to generate
business opportunities.

Return to Contents page

8

A The enormous potential of the online advertising market
The digital advertising market is growing rapidly.
In the first half of 2017, the online advertising market represented 2 billion USDollar, a significant increase
of 9.8% compared to the first half of 2016.
The digital market is far ahead of other media. It represents 33% of investments versus 28.3% for
television.

In 2017 digital advertising generated 247.87 billion USD.
2017: Total Media Advertising Spending Worldwide by Region

2.45%

36.98%

17.48%

32.40%
4.23%
6.46%

2017: Breakdown by Media
4.79%

Search

Influence

Banners

Acquisition

Videos

Emailing

Rich media

SMS

Ads

3.22%

0.41%
0.33%

19.54%

41.27%

15.05%

11.89%
3.49%

Return to Contents page

9

Revenues in the digital advertising
market

2017: Breakdown by Industry

Retail

350 B$
300 B$

315.64
281.41

250 B$
200 B$

32.40%

247.87

Automobile

212.06

12.90%

150 B$
100 B$

Financial services

50 B$

12.20%

0 B$
2016

2017

2018

2019

Telecom

2017: Breakdown by Platform
Google: 33.00%

10.90%
Consumer goods

8.80%

Facebook: 16.20%
Alibaba: 7.80%

Travel

8.20%

Baidu: 6.20%
Tencent: 3.00%
Linkedin: 2.70%
Yahoo: 1.40%
Twitter: 1.40%
Amazon: 1.00%
Snapchat: 0.40%
Others: 29.50%

Return to Contents page

Computer Products

7.60%
Media

5.80%
Leisure

4.90
Others
4.30%
Health and Pharmacy
2.40%

10

B A few definitions to understand advertising!

INFLUENCEr MARKETING includes all practices
that aim to use the recommendation potential
of the influencers, most often used in the sense
of digital influencer.
performance marketing are the techniques
where the advertiser pays for advertising or
marketing based directly on campaign results.
Advertisers like this, since it theoretically
limits risk if a campaign is unsuccessful.
This sort of payment is often based on:
• transactions billed to commission or to CPA ,
• visits or clicks billed to CPC ,
• various completed forms invoiced to CPA.
AFFILIATe MARKETING works based on a
payment model for affiliates (e.g.a webmaster
or blogger) whenever a customer does a
specific action (e.g. makes an order, purchase,
installation, etc.). These networks are usually
independent and work with Advertisers (CPA
Networks - see below)
Affiliate networks (CPA Networks)
offer rewards to advertisers in the CPA
model and offer a range of services including
creating entire affiliate programs. The affiliate
networks charge advertisers for customer
actions, payment of commissions to affiliates
and charge commissions for the service.
An affiliate (webmaster, publisher, advertiser,
influencer) is a marketing professional (or a
group of marketers under a single account in
an affiliate network) who provides publicity for
a product or service in return for compensation
or a payout for every targeted customer action
originating from their site.

Return to Contents page

AN ADVERTISER, in this context, is the person
encouraging affiliates to find customers by
creating offers and paying for them (often
through affiliate networks) for targeted
customer actions corresponding to the
conditions of the offer.
Tracking is the monitoring of the many
campaign parameters in the affiliate marketing
process. For example: time, source and number
of targeted activities.
Fraud, in terms of affiliate marketing, means
the different ways to deceive the affiliate
network and the advertisers in order to obtain
a monetary reward.
There are a variety of common methods:
emulation of targeted actions, spoofing the
source of the customers introduced (cookie
stuffing), tricking customers by using decoys
to increase the probability of a targeted action
(for example using a price significantly lower
than the advertiser’s offer) and others.
THE Lead is the targeted customer action in
response to an advertising campaign: sales,
order, call, registration, installation of the
application, etc.
THE OFFER is an advertising proposal to attract
targeted activities from advertisers or affiliate
networks.
THE COMMITMENT is the concept of social
commitment or commitment to social networks,
usually meaning the set of interactions that
can be generated on social publications
(Facebook post, Snap, Tweet, etc.) organic
or paid. Social commitment can therefore be
translated as a "like", a comment, sharing or
other forms of reaction offered by the different
social networks.

11

C The different online advertising business models
Advertisers, according to needs (to increase brand awareness, generate traffic, acquire leads or even
develop their sales) will choose a payment mode for their publishers.
These are the different ways to invoice online advertising:

cpc

(Cost Per Click)

CPM

(Cost Per Thousand)

CPC is the cost per click
generated by a publisher.

CPM is the cost per thousand
displays or impressions
of an ad.

cpa

cPV

(Cost Per Action)

(Cost Per View)

CPA is the cost per action,
which can be a sale, a form
or a quote request.

CPV is the cost per view
of a video.

CPE
(Cost Per Engagement)

The advertiser pays when
users interact with the ad
(likes , comments, shares...).

Return to Contents page

conversion rate
The conversion rate is the KPI
corresponding to the % of people
who performed an action
in relation to the target
population.

12

03

A Smart Contract to govern advertising transactions
Thanks to the SaTT Smart Contract, an advertiser can easily create advertising campaigns whose
conditions for participation and results will be stored in distributed decentralized records (blockchain).
These ads will be searchable via dedicated APIs. This means tampering with results will be extremely
difficult.
A SaTT Smart Contract transaction may only be validated if:

The affiliate meets the
criteria- age, sex, city,
audience.

The publisher has
relayed the advertising
campaign and the defined
oracle has returned the
result statistics.

The "oracles" have
returned the information,
the transaction is executed
and the SaTT amount
transferred to the publisher.

A Selecting the relevant publishers
One of the biggest challenges of internet advertising
is recruiting and validating advertising campaign
partners.
Advertisers must select the best partners. This can
depend on the scope of their broadcast network, the
topics addressed or simply its image.
An example:
Illegal streaming sites are able to generate
significant traffic, but given the nature of the
practices an advertiser will generally avoid
using them in favour of a source that will not
affect the integrity of its image.

SaTT Smart Contract will give an advertiser the
power to define criteria for partner participation
in a campaign as well as our automated oracle
performance.
An advertiser may, for example, choose the Klout
app to define the level of influence required to
participate.

Return to Contents page

13

B Quantifying the results of an advertising campaign
In the current model, advertising agencies or affiliate
networks are able to evaluate the performance of an
advertising campaign, by its number of impressions,
clicks, or sales.
Therefore there is a specific statistical tool for each
platform, which is relatively robust and secure, but
does not include reactions on social networks that
are useful in judging the performance of an ad.
These tools are similar to the ones used by
advertisers (e.g. Google Analytics, Facebook
Analytics, etc.)
The major advantage of SaTT is the use of the Smart
Contract which communicates with third-party
APIs to quantify the performance of campaigns
and evaluate the amount of the transaction.
These applications play the role of Oracle and
interact automatically with the Smart Contract to
quantify the performance of an advertisement and
thus automatically define the amount to be paid to
the publisher.
The advertiser can choose between third party apps
depending on its objective.

For example:
As part of an influencer marketing campaign,
an advertiser can define an application
specializing in the study of Instagram statistics
as a performance oracle and thus quantify the
remuneration to the publisher.
In the same way, another may choose Google
Analytics as a reference if it aims to quantify
the visits to its website.

Current Model

Independent application platform

The SaTT Smart Contract

This is the typical group of applications that
play the role of oracle.

With the SaTT Smart Contract, advertisers and publishers will be able to obtain results such as
impressions, clicks, subscribers, sales or reactions on the social networks for a campaign with the
most relevant tools according to its objectives.
Depending on the usage evolution, new tools can be added and will communicate with the SaTT
Smart Contract.

Return to Contents page

14

C Building trust, preventing fraud
The security of current affiliate networks is threatened:
If a centralized network is hacked, the hackers can access all system
accounts.
In the case of a technical failure on a centralized platform, all ad
campaigns stop working until the incident is resolved.
Advertisers and publishers of many ad networks must trust centralized
advertising agencies without being able to verify the statistical results
provided.
Thanks to the blockchain, advertisers and their campaigns are not connected
to each other. This means they are not all affected by a single hack or
malfunction.
Thanks to the SaTT Smart Contract, ads and transactions are governed by
modules of independent persons secured by the Ethereum blockchain.
In the event that a module or oracle malfunctions, the integrity of ads of
other advertisers is preserved.

The most common frauds found in the online advertising market
Advertisers

Publishers

Inform a publisher that an
order was not delivered and
refuse to pay commission
on the customer purchase

Inject fake accounts to
obtain CPA commission.

Delay commission
payments to publishers.

Trick statistics by using
robots.

Make mistakes in the
calculation of affiliate
remuneration.

Change the site tracking
code so that not all leads are
registered and paid.

Advertising Agencies

Discreetly remove
advertiser and publisher
accounts.
Trick the statistics.

The use of the SaTT Smart Contract
allows advertisers and publishers to
define a trusted third party (oracle)
who will decide on the campaign
performance statistics and the amount
to be invoiced (examples: Google
Analytics , Instagram Analytics , etc.).

Return to Contents page

The decentralized and distributed
blockchain ensures integrity of the
billing data and payments without any
possibility of falsification.

15

D Reducing costs, speeding up transactions
The traditional business model of conventional centralized
advertising agencies relies on a prohibitive cost of entry and
monthly billing for the services provided.
The minimum fee for using their interface ranges from several
hundred to thousands of dollars a month.

Choice of oracle
A

B

C

With the blockchain and the SaTT Smart Contract, the transaction
cost is split between the encryption and oracle modules based on
user needs. There is no minimum monthly billing. The competition
between the oracle modules guarantees a high level of service and
competitive rates.
In traditional centralized advertising agencies, the payment of
commissions to affiliates may take several months, resulting
in significant transfer fees and blocking where minimum billing
amount is not met.
By using SaTT, payments are immediate as long as the success
criteria are met. Payments are subject to neither a transfer fee nor
a currency conversion fee.

E A complete and decentralized tool to govern advertising
transactions

A decentralized
register

An integration
API

A development
SDK

Traditional centralized advertising agencies offer proprietary interfaces that, through their design, may
not meet all the expectations of advertisers and publishers.
Some need access to specific statistics, to generate custom reports or to automate the creation of
advertising.
The SaTT Smart Contract, operating in a decentralized way via the Ethereum blockchain, allows
developers to design tailor-made tools.
Hence, any developer can design a SaTT-compatible campaign creation tool, an advertising directory or
statistics interface.

The SaTT Smart Contract is decentralized, it is not a proprietary platform.

Return to Contents page

16

04

Operation of the SaTT Smart Contract
The SaTT Smart Contract works in a decentralized and distributed manner. The blockchain will include
all current offers that allow any API or platform to perform operations, whether creating as part of an
adbuilder, posting to make an ad directory, or as an oracle, for example by providing the necessary
statistics to validate and quantify the transaction.
The advantage of such a Smart Contract is to gather market offers in a decentralized database, to set
the rules that apply to advertising contracts and to automatically trigger payments once the transaction
is performed.

Advantages
For Advertisers

Advantages
For Publishers

Very low fees

Exclusive products

International publishers

Surety of payment

No middleman

Instant Payment

Relevant statistics

Easy Token Exchange

Automatic Payment

Relevant Statistics
17

Advertisers

The advertiser wants to maximize the penetration of their message.

We provide a simple, fast and powerful tool to identify the best communication
medium, and the best performing potential partners.
The SaTT Smart Contract faciliates the broadcast of advertisements according
to performance objectives (e.g. to increase its visibility, to generate traffic, to
generate sales opportunities or to directly make sales).
It can follow the evolution of a campaign on the industry standards, such as Google
Analytics, Instagram or Facebook Analytics through oracle module connections.
Finally, publishers and communities can access exclusive products and events in
exchange for SaTT.
SaTT which it can turn around and reuse for new campaigns!

Return to Contents page

18

Publishers

The publisher

wants to find the most relevant and profitable campaigns and
content for its audience.
Thanks to the blockchain, partners can now guarantee that the campaign is funded
and will be paid as soon as the contract conditions between the partner and the
advertiser are met, such as at the end of a campaign or performance threshold.
Once the objectives are achieved, the Smart Contract automatically triggers the
transaction and the specified funds are transferred directly to its portfolio net of
the commission paid to the oracle modules.

Return to Contents page

19

Oracles

What is an oracle module?
An oracle is an application between the Smart Contract and a data source to
relay information on the performance of a campaign or process (number of
clicks, number of views, ability to participate, validation of campaign integrity).
When an application connects to Google Analytics and returns the volume of a
publisher’s traffic on the advertiser’s website at the end of the month to an oracle
module, it uses that data to determine if the conditions of the Smart Contract are
fulfilled. Several oracles may be involved in the process before a Smart Contract based
transaction is approved.
For example:
Coca-Cola could define that the company REECH decide on the capacity of
publishers to participate, set the transaction condition to 2,000 views, and
define Google Analytics as oracle to obtain the statistics, the results of the
campaign..
Oracles can be developed directly by ATAYEN, Inc. or by third-party developers via the
SaTT API.
The advertiser can choose the most relevant of the validated applications or have
custom ones created.
The application developers are compensated via commission when transactions are
approved and validated.

Return to Contents page

20

Oracles, trusted third parties to the transaction

Performance
oracle
Performance oracles provide the statistics needed
for billing. For example, it may be used to count
views, clicks, lead engagement or sales.

Contact Form

Capacity
oracle
Capacity oracles analyze the partner profiles to
validate they meet the criteria set by the advertiser
for the campaign. These conditions can range from
the reputation of the publisher on social networks,
to factors such as its type of audience, or market
segment.

Security
oracle
Security oracles are an option for advertisers who want
to analyze and validate the quality of the campaign
as well as minimizing potential fraud. Some of the
modules include robot detectors and a lead or visit
analyzers.

Return to Contents page

21

SaTT Ecosystem
Convert money to SaTT,
or vice versa

CRYPTOCURRENCY EXCHANGE
PLATFORM

Convert SaTT into
money

Exchange SaTT for exclusive
products

ADVERTISERS

PUBLISHERS
Unlock payment after
validation of all objectives

Finance a
campaign

ORACLES

SMART CONTRACT

SaTT

Analyze & validate
achievement of objectives

Launch of
advertising
campaigns

Campaign parameters:

Click result
04/11/18
YouTube
1,000

Return to Contents page

22

05

Crowdsale and initial distribution of SaTT Tokens
SaTT tokens emitted, Hard Cap

20 000 000 000

Protocol

ERC20 / ERC223

Payment

$/€/BTC/ETH

Decimal

18

Token value

$ 0,0042

Softcap

$ 3 360 000

Hardcap

$ 28 560 000

Referal program : 5%
Through the Referral Program, a user can invite contacts using a unique
referral code. If any of the contacts participates in the IEO, the user gets
rewarded with a 5% commission of the participating amount.

Return to Contents page

23

progression of the crowdsale and bonus

Number of SaTT available

$ value (USD)

Stage

% bonus

Pre ICO

100 %

200 000 000

$ 0.0021

$ 420,000

Step 1

50 %

300 000 000

$ 0.0028

$ 840,000

Step 2

30 %

650 000 000

$ 0.0032

$ 2,100,000

TOTAL SOFTCAP

Price / SaTT

1 150 000 000

$ 3,360,000

-

Initial Exchange Offering
Launchpad
Target price $0.0042

1 150 000 000

Return to Contents page

available

24

Distribution of the SaTT

27.63%
Reserve

10.00%

associates

13.12%

Grant Program

34.00%

7.50%

crowdsale

Team/advisors

5.25%
BONUS

2.50%

Bounties

Distribution of tokens

SaTT value

$ Value (USD)

34.00%

6,800,000,000

$ 28,560,000

Reserve

30.125 %

6,025,000,000

$ 25,305,000

Grant Program

13.125 %

2,625,000,000

$ 11,025,000

10.00 %

2,000,000,000

$ 8,400,000

Team / advisors

7.50 %

1,500,000,000

$ 6,300,000

Bonus

2.75%

550,000,000

$ 2,310,000

Bounties

2.50 %

500,000,000

$ 2,100,000

100 %

20,000,000,000

$ 84 000 000

Crowdsale

Associates

TOTAL

Burn reserve
Undistributed tokens during
Crowdsale will be burned.

Return to Contents page

Percentage (%)

Vesting plan
The tokens that are allocated to partners as well as to the team
are blocked by contract for a period of one year, and is then made
available in increments of 10% every month for the next 10 months.

25

Percentage operating expenses
4.0%

equipment & supplies

16.1%

8.7%

outsourcing

2%

salaries & expenses

real estate rentals

2.7%

0.7%

insurances

legal

3.8%

membership

13.4%

4%

events

data center

13.4%

advertising

28.2%

reserve fiat, btc

2.7%

travel & transport

Equipment & supplies

Membership

Reserve FIAT, BTC

Outsourcing

Data center

Events

Real estate rentals

Advertising

Legal

Insurances

Travel & transport

Salaries & expenses

SaTT Events

Much of the funding goes into promoting SaTT through advertising and events alongside the world’s
largest web, advertising and blockchain shows.
Our goal is to obtain maximum funds to democratize the use of SaTT and the use of the transaction
application.
A €/$/Bitcoin/Ether foreign exchange reserve is planned for all purposes deemed convenient.

Return to Contents page

26

06
FAQ

WHAT IS A SaTT TOKEN?

SaTT are tokens issued from an Ethereum smart contract. These tokens will be used in advertising
transactions between advertisers and publishers.
Does the token bestow ownership on the ATAYEN Inc. company?

No, the tokens do not bestow any rights or ownership of ATAYEN Inc.
The tokens allow you to use the advertising services provided by ATAYEN Inc. and to trade products
and exclusive services
HOW MANY SaTT TOKENS ARE AVAILABLE?

We have issued 20 000 000 000 tokens out of which 118 000 000 are available for the crowdsale.
We will not issue any additional tokens in the future.
What can I buy with SaTT?

You can already purchase our App Suite and our e-mailing service. Soon, you will be able to pay for
advertising services as well as our partners’ services and products.
How to get SaTT tokens?

You can easily acquire SaTT during the crowdsale thanks to our wallet. You can purchase them with
ETH, BTC or by bank transfer.
You can participate from exchange platforms such as Bitrex, Binance or any wallet, as well as by credit
card by using services like transferwise.
Upon receipt of proof of payment, the corresponding SaTT are delivered to your wallet, and you will
then be able to transfer them to any ERC20 wallet (MEW, Metamask, etc) or use our App.
Where to store purchased SaTT?

You can store your SaTT on our SaTT wallet at satt.atayen.us, on any ERC20 wallet (MEW, Metamask,
etc) or on a nano Ledger key.
How to create a SaTT wallet?

To create your SaTT wallet with ease, go to satt.atayen.us, sign up or login through Facebook Connect
and choose your password to secure your transactions.

Return to Contents page

27

07

RoadMap - to infinity and beyond

28

08

SaTT is live: It’s already more than a currency

You can exchange your SaTT with others Cryptocurrencies in P2P, 3xchange.io
You can stock & transfer SaTT to your contacts, with the SaTT Wallet.
You can sell or buy on Facebook with Store.
You can pay or be paid in SaTT with the payment API PayBySaTT.
You can send SaTT to the moon with the application When moon

Return to Contents page

29

09

Buying SaTT exclusive products
SaTT is already a medium of transactions and can be used to buy our App Suite or products on Facebook pages
that use our apps. The PayBySaTT functionality is easily installed in our app store. We will also offer SDK for
third-party developers so that we make a host of exclusive products and events payable in SaTT.

Exclusive products
Exceptional products for
exceptional people.

Brands can sell exclusive products for SaTT to
a community of exceptional people.
September 2018: Installed in Store By
ATAYEN, Inc. Sell or buy SaTT on Facebook
stores
Q.2 2019: SDK for third party developer
(Woocommerce, Magento, Prestashop ...).

Return to Contents page

&

Events
Events reserved for
SaTT holders.

Every year we select at least 6 of the biggest
events to offer a SaTT evening to discuss our
project with the leaders of the community.
Advertisers can also arrange exclusive events
with the PayBySaTT module.

30

10

A strong, motivated team

Gauthier BROS

Stéphanie Clément

Geoffrey MOYA

Caroline MURACCIOLI

Wiem BOUTITI

B lo c kc h a i n e x p e r t

C h i e f d esig n / UX g u r u

Web d esig n er

CEO

CTO

Samir ksibi

Asso ciate p ar tn er

The Advisors

Eric
alexandre

Barrak
El Homayssi

CEO J e t c o i n

CEO SRG

Richard
ESTEVE

Quentin
herbrecht

Philippe
Erb

jordan
DELAGNEAU
31

The investors

Kima Venture

DotCorp

NB Group

Solly Azar

Does our project interest you ?
Would you like to support us ?
We are ready to hear your proposal !

I would like to participate

Return to Contents page

32

11
Disclaimer
PREAMBLE
The buyer of SaTT tokens understands and accepts that ATAYEN, Inc. does not aim to act as a substitute
for the knowledge that the buyer must possess for its purchases on the cryptoassets market .
Thus, the buyer of SaTT tokens assumes and acknowledges an understanding of the field of cryptoassets,
systems developed by ATAYEN, Inc. and the Blockchain mechanism. This includes the risks associated
with the crowdsale as well as the mechanism related to the use of cryptoassets, and more specifically,
SaTT tokens (including storage).
ATAYEN , INC. WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR LOSS OF SaTT TOKENS, PIRACY, AND / OR SITUATIONS
INVOLVING THE IMPOSSIBILITY FOR THE PURCHASER TO ACCESS THE SaTT TOKENS WHICH MAY
RESULT FROM ANY ACTIONS OR OMISSIONS OF THE PURCHASER OF SaTT TOKENS AND THE USER OF
THE SERVICES OFFERED BY ATAYEN , INC.
THIS WHITEPAPER IN NO EVENT SHALL CREATE A PROSPECTUS OR OFFERING DOCUMENT. IT IS
NOT INTENDED TO CONSTITUTE AN OFFER TO SELL OR AN INVITATION TO A PURCHASE AND / OR
SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.
THIS WHITEPAPER IS NOT INTENDED TO CONSTITUTE A SOLICITATION TO INVEST IN SECURITIES OR
ANY OTHER FORM OF INVESTMENT PRODUCTS. THIS WHITEPAPER, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, AND ANY
COPY OF IT, SHOULD NOT BE TAKEN OR TRANSMITTED TO ANY COUNTRY WHERE THE DISTRIBUTION
AND DISSEMINATION OF WHITEPAPERS IS PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED.

1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The SaTT token will not be legally considered a security since it does not give rights to dividend, interest,
profit-sharing, or any other remuneration. Also, the SaTT tokens will not be considered shares because
they do not give access to ordinary or extraordinary general meetings of ATAYEN, Inc.
The sale of SaTT tokens is final and non-refundable. They cannot be used outside the platform
developed by ATAYEN, Inc. Consequently, they cannot and must not be bought for speculative purposes
or investments. The buyer of the SaTT tokens understands and is aware that the SaTT tokens issued
by ATAYEN, Inc. operate in a decentralized non regulated market. The information issued by ATAYEN,
Inc. relates to the crowdsale and SaTT tokens, and the purchaser of the said tokens understands that
no specific European regulatory framework governs this activity. As a result, the buyer is aware that the
purchase of SaTT tokens is undertaken without the benefit of legal and / or regulatory protection.
Any person purchasing SaTT tokens understands, accepts and acknowledges to have carefully reviewed
this whitepaper and to fully understand the risks, costs and benefits associated with the purchase of
SaTT tokens and the services offered by ATAYEN, Inc.

Return to Contents page

33

2. RISK
2.1 General information on the risks related to cryptoassets
2.1.1 Risks related to trading or holding cryptoassets
The buyer acknowledges and understands that cryptoasset markets are decentralized nonregulated
markets. The SaTT Tokens issued and the services offered by ATAYEN, Inc. therefore relate to
unregulated markets which are not governed by any specific European framework. In other words, and
unlike «traditional» financial assets, the Central Bank cannot take corrective measures to protect the
value of cryptoassets in a crisis, or issue more assets in the markets.
Cryptoasset markets are determined by supply and demand. These markets are dynamic markets and
the corresponding prices are often extremely unpredictable and volatile. Cryptoasset prices are generally
not transparent, are highly speculative and likely to be manipulated by the market. In the worst case,
the asset may be reduced to zero value. Also, the buyer of the SaTT token and the user of the services
offered by ATAYEN, Inc. acknowledge being aware that cryptoassets, due to their lack of regulation, are
likely to be misused for illegal activities owing to the anonymity of transactions. The law enforcement
and financial market regulation bodies are therefore likely to investigate alleged unlawful activities
which could be detrimental to the buyer and / or the user.
As a result, cryptoassets should be considered an extremely high risk asset and the buyer will always have
to buy with the understanding and awareness that the funds can be lost. The purchase of cryptoassets
is not suitable for everyone. The buyer therefore understands that SaTT tokens should not be bought
without the necessary knowledge and expertise to understand the characteristics of the token, the
crowdsale, the whitepaper and the exposure to risk.
The buyer of SaTT tokens understands and accepts that ATAYEN , Inc. has no intention of acting as a
substitute for the knowledge that the buyer must possess for its purchases on the cryptoassets market.
The buyer of the SaTT tokens and the user of the services offered by ATAYEN, Inc. understands and
accepts that ATAYEN, Inc. and this whitepaper is not intended as a substitute for the knowledge that the
buyer must possess for its purchases on the cryptoassets market.
Indeed, the buyer recognizes that the risk of loss in the purchase of cryptoassets can be considerable.
The buyer must therefore carefully consider whether the purchase on this type of market is appropriate
in view of their situation and financial resources. The buyer understands that a total loss of tokens is
possible.
2.1.2 Risks related to third parties
The Blockchain is an independent public peer-to-peer network, free of any European legislation or
regulations. The buyer understands that errors, failures and / or violations may occur in the Blockchain
and may result in the loss of the purchased SaTT tokens. Also, the buyer acknowledges being bound
and subject to any change and / or modification in the Blockchain system and being subject to any
applicable law that may apply to the Blockchain. While ATAYEN, Inc. may provide information about the
legislative and regulatory changes that could occur, ATAYEN, Inc. is not required to provide information
on the subject and gives no guarantee, express or implicit, statutory or other, regarding features, current
legislation and / or security in the Blockchain.
2.1.3 Specific information on the risks related to the SaTT tokens

Return to Contents page

34

SaTT tokens may eventually be exchanged on third party platforms (Exchanges). These third parties are
not banks and do not hold their fiduciary assets / virtual assets as deposits.
If such third party loses money, fails or goes bankrupt, there is no specific legal protection that covers
the buyer for the losses resulting from the tokens that the buyer may have held with that third party, even
if that party is registered with a national authority. The SaTT tokens and services offered by ATAYEN, Inc.
cannot predict the risks associated with these third party holders (Exchanges).
Indeed, depending on the structure and security of the digital wallet, some may be vulnerable to piracy,
and lead to the theft or loss of cryptoassets, and more specifically the SaTT token. ATAYEN, Inc., despite
the information it may provide, will not be liable for any losses caused by these third parties
2.2 Specific information on the risks related to the SaTT tokens
The acquisition and storage of SaTT tokens involves various risks. These include the possibility
that ATAYEN, Inc., may not be able to launch its operations or projects, including development of its
Blockchain or the services promised in this Whitepaper.
As a result, and before acquiring SaTT tokens, any user acknowledges to have fully examined the risks,
costs and benefits of acquiring SaTT tokens in the context of a crowdsale and, if necessary, to have
obtained the opinion of a professional specialist on this subject.
Any interested person unable to accept or understand the risks associated with the activity (including the
risks associated with the non-development of the ATAYEN, Inc. platform) or any other risk as indicated
in Article 2.1 above, should not buy.
2.3 Important Warning on the Whitepaper and the Business Model
This Whitepaper should not be considered as an invitation to invest. It does not constitute, nor relate
in any way, to a securities placement. This whitepaper does not include or provide any information or
indication that could be considered by the buyer as a recommendation or incentive to invest. SaTT
tokens are just utility tokens and therefore can only be used on the platforms developed by ATAYEN, Inc.
and are not intended as an investment.
The possibility of buying SaTT tokens on trading platforms is only intended to allow the use of the
services offered by ATAYEN, Inc. and is not an incentive to invest.
In addition, ATAYEN, Inc. should not be considered a legal, tax or financial advisor. All information
provided in this whitepaper is provided solely for the purpose of general information and ATAYEN, Inc.
makes no warranty as to the accuracy and completeness of this information.
ATAYEN, Inc. cannot be considered as a financial intermediary pursuant to Articles L. 519-1, L. 541-1, L.
545-1, L. 547-1 L. 548-1 of the Monetary and Financial Code. As a result, ATAYEN, Inc. does not have to
obtain authorizations for the purpose of combating money laundering or to register by virtue of Article
L. 546-1 of the Monetary and Financial Code.
The acquisition of SaTT tokens does not confer any rights in the activities of ATAYEN, Inc.
The buyer of SaTT tokens understands and accepts the fact that national regulatory authorities can
carefully examine the companies and operations associated with cryptoassets worldwide. As a result,
regulatory measures, investigations and actions may affect the activities of ATAYEN, Inc. and even limit
or prevent its operation.
The buyer understands the ATAYEN, Inc. business model and that, in the future, the whitepaper and the

Return to Contents page

35

economic terms may change due to new regulatory requirements. In such case, the buyer of SaTT
tokens recognizes and understands that ATAYEN, Inc. cannot be held responsible for any loss or
damage, direct or indirect, as a result of these changes. These change factors include, among others:
•

A change in the political, social, economic and cryptoasset stock market conditions as well as
a change in the regulatory environment in the countries in which ATAYEN, Inc. carries out its
operations and activities;

•

The risk that ATAYEN, Inc. may be unable to execute or implement its business strategy and future
development;

•

Changes in interest rates and / or exchange rates of fiduciary currencies and cryptoassets;

•

Anticipated change in growth strategy and expected organic growth;

•

A change in the availability and fees payable to ATAYEN, Inc. as part of its business and its
operations;

•

A change in the availability and salaries of employees that are required by ATAYEN, Inc. to operate
its business and implement its operations;

•

A change in the competitive conditions under which ATAYEN, Inc. is operating.

•

A change in the capital requirements of ATAYEN, Inc. as well as the availability of financing;

•

A war or acts of national and international terrorism;

•

The occurrence of catastrophic events, natural disasters or any other event external to
ATAYEN,Inc.;

•

Other factors beyond the control of ATAYEN, Inc.

ATAYEN, Inc. will do its utmost to launch its operations and develop its platform. The buyer of SaTT
tokens understands that ATAYEN, Inc. provides no guarantee on the objectives it wishes to achieve. As a
result, ATAYEN, Inc., its bodies and employees are not responsible for the losses and damages resulting
from the inability to use the SaTT tokens, except in the case of intentional or negligent wrongdoing on
the part of ATAYEN, Inc.
Thus, the buyer understands and accepts that nothing in this whitepaper is or can be considered to be a
promise or commitment regarding the performance or future policies of ATAYEN, Inc.

3. WARRANTIES
By participating in the crowdsale, the buyer understands and accepts the above and in particular,
warrants:
•

To have carefully read and to accept the entire contents of the whitepaper;

•

To have the authorization and full powers to buy SaTT tokens through a crowdsale according to the
applicable laws in the territory of their domicile;

Return to Contents page

36

•

To reside in a jurisdiction that allows ATAYEN, Inc. to sell SaTT tokens through a crowdsale without
requiring authorization by the competent courts in their declared domicile;

•

To not use the crowdsale for illegal activities, such as (but not limited to) money laundering and
financing of terrorism;

•

To have sufficient knowledge of the nature of SaTT tokens and to have an understanding and
significant experience with cryptoassets and Blockchain-based systems;

•

To buy SaTT tokens only to access the platform developed by ATAYEN, Inc.

•

To not buy SaTT tokens for investment and / or speculative purposes.

IF IN DOUBT ABOUT THE PURCHASE OF SaTT TOKENS, IT IS ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL TO CONSULT A
LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX OR OTHER COMPETENT PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR.

Cedric
DUBUCQ
Attorney since 2013, Cédric
Dubucq works in business
law and assists companies
and individuals in the field of
cryptoassets. He is a
founding member of the
dothanks «Avotechs».

Return to Contents page

Thomas
BERNARD
Thomas Bernard provides legal
support for digital companies.
Business developer and
attorney, Thomas has expert
knowledge of all aspects and
challenges of digital
and cryptoassets.

David
Ybert de Fontenelle
Entrepreneur and attorney,
David Ybert de Fontenelle
provides professional and
personal legal support
inherent to cryptoassets.

37

Contact us for more information
contact@atayen.us
www.satt-token.com

Return to Contents page

38

