Ignition Coin and The Ignition Network

Engineered for Value, Sustainability, and Growth
Learn more at https://ignitioncoin.org - The Ignition Coin Project

::Introduction::

The Ignition Network and its common network token, ignition coin, is an open-source,
peer-to-peer commodity, designed and engineered using the best ideas for value storage from
many different cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin. The Ignition Network seeks to create a
cryptocurrency whose primary function is as a secure store of value, like bitcoin, without any of
the current limitations that we believe will one day inhibit Bitcoin’s potential growth.

The Ignition Network is designed by ‘rethinking the cryptocurrency wheel’ by critically re-thinking
what a cryptocurrency was designed to do. What this means is that Ignition Coin’s primary focus
is not as a being a currency, although it can easily act as one (with low fees too!), or as some
newer smart contract tokens such as Ethereum try to be (though it does allow for highly
advanced voting and consensus). The primary goal with the Ignition Network is to be a strong
platform engineered to both store value, and grow it.

The Ignition Network leverages the many ideas and proven concepts created across the entire
spectrum of the cryptocurrency revolution. Incorporating various techniques and code that
enabled hybrid verification proofs, drastically lower fees, limited supply and inflation, capped at
5 million tokens, and larger, faster blocks and block times.

::The Coin::

Ignition Coins are designed with future value in my by maximizing decentralization, opportunities
for earnings, diversified network security techniques, and fair distribution starting from day zero.

:: Distribution & Coin Specifications ::
Coin Ticker: IC
Total Coin Supply : 5,000,000 over 50 Years
Block Time : 2 Minutes
Block Size: 20MB
Mining Algorithm: Scrypt
Staking Minimum: 1IC
Staking Age: ~30 minutes
Master Node Price: 3000IC

:: Distribution ::

Distribution methods exhibited in many coins lack one of several key properties to maximize
functionality as a store of value. With Bitcoin, it’s algorithm uses huge amounts of electricity and
generates a lot of heat. These machines are often difficult to resell or maintain any earnings
from after about 1-2 years, and usually is equally as hard to buy as it is to sell. The high power
cost, highly incentivized network creates an energy problem that eats several country’s worth of
power a day, and continues growing.

With Proof of Stake coins, such as what Ethereum plans to become, the algorithm solves the
power cost issue, by virtualizing the mining process, which includes the heavy expenditure of
power, but replaces it with high capital requirements.

Finally, Master Node systems like DashCoin require even higher capital cost, and usually
become more centralized over time.

Ignition Coin wants to empower its users by enabling as many ways to access the coin
generation process as possible, by fairly distributing rather than advantageously skewing the
distribution of the network token, by combining many of these different distribution methods, as
well as creating some properties of our own.

Phase 1 :: The Initial Distribution ::

A core belief behind Ignition Coin is that of creating diversified distribution patterns, which can
help keep a cryptocurrency decentralized. That is why we would like to fairly distribute the initial
coins that get the network engines going.

Proof of stake and master nodes create a chicken and the egg scenario, requiring coins in users
wallets for the network to begin securing and processing transactions.

To get the staking and Master Node systems started, we will be generating 100,000IC at the
start of the live network, which will be distributed to contributors of development (0.4% of total
coins), sold directly on exchanges (1% of total coins), and given away as bounties (0.6% of total
coins).

Mining, Staking, and Master Nodes will all be accessible from day one.

Phase 2 :: Long-Term Distribution Patterns ::

Creating a cryptocurrency whose primary design and engineering goals are to enhance store of
value properties, we decided on some basic economic principles that guided the decisions
behind the properties of the coin.

The most important principle is that of inflation levels in regards to both price and market
capitalization. A currency or asset that is inflating rapidly almost always sees a declining price,
due to a supply that is increasingly greater than demand. And, a currency or asset with a
consistently falling price is usually held for less time, so as to lose the least value, which puts
further pressure upon the market capitalization to decline as users sell their asset for others that
will store their value better or increase it.

Bitcoin’s property of real finite scarcity gives it incredible value, yet many other major
cryptocurrencies, like Ethereum, leave this property out. This is fine if you want your coin to be
readily available for smart contracts, but not for long term store of value. The problem with
Bitcoin is that it becomes more costly to the environment and natural resources as the electrical
cost grows. Unfortunately, there are almost no proof of stake cryptocurrencies that put a cap on
their total supply.

Ignition Coin solves this issue, and creates a proof of stake powered cryptocurrency that has the
capability to store value with negligible power cost.

The coin distribution will be as such: ​50% will be PoW distribution, 25% Proof of Stake, and
25% Master Node Rewards - This may change to 50% Proof of Stake, and 50% Master
Nodes in the future to become more sustainable.

Day 1: Mining, Staking, and Master Node systems active Day 1, and 100,000IC distributed to
Bounty, Community, and Development bonuses begins

Year 1: Over the first year, 1 Million coins in total will be released

Year 2-5: 1 Million Coins Distributed

Year 5-10: 1 Million Coins Distributed

Year 10-20: 1 Million Coins Distributed

Year 20-50: 1 Million Coins Distributed, then fees for mining/staking/master node earnings only.

This takes the network to a total of 5 Million IC over a 50 year period.

:: Use Cases, Conclusion ::

Ignition coin has one primary focus, and that is as a store of value, and that requires focus on
fungibility, security, privacy, efficiency, low inflation, extreme decentralization and built-in
lucrative opportunities incentivizing growth.

The expected use case is for those want want to store value securely for a long term, those who
love the idea of bitcoin, but feel it is limited by constraints that will eventually inhibit its true
potential. The Ignition Network will allow anyone to be able to store value securely over time.

The coin can also be used as a very fast, very capable transaction and payments layer, with
much larger transaction capacity and much faster speed than Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, or Litecoin,
with lower fees of only 0.00000001IC.

Development on Ignition Coin and the Ignition Network is supported by almost all current
software that supports bitcoin integration, simply by changing a few parameters. Develop new
software on top of the Ignition Network as easily as Bitcoin!

Ignition is engineered for financial freedom and sustainability.

