SMART INFLUENCER CONTENTS SYSTEM
ON BLOCKCHAIN TECH

Whitepaper Ver 0.8

ISTARDUST EXCHANGE PLATFORM

Contents
1. Market Analysis of Influence
Systems Current Status of Influence Industry4

4

Influence Industry Problems

6

2. Definition and characteristics of ISTARDUST
Defining ISTARDUST

7

ISTARDUST Platform Features

8

How to Use the ISTARDUST Platform

10

3. ISTARDUST Platform Services
ISTARDUST Platform Services

11

A Case Study on the Use of the ISTARDUST

12

(Music / Fashion / Beauty / Entertainment / Game / Art / Donation & Sponsorship / IT)

4. ISTARDUST Features
ISTARDUST FUNCTION _ Influence Rank System

18

ISTARDUST Feature _ Messenger

20

ISTARDUST FUNCTION _ PAYMENT

21

ISTARDUST Media Commerce

23

ISTARDUST MUSIC

24

ISTARDUST GAME

25

5. ISTARDUST Business Model

26

6. ISTARDUST Token
ISTARDUST Summary

27

ISTARDUST Token Sale

28

ISTARDUST Token Economy

29

ISTARDUST Ecosystem

30

7. ISTARDUST_TREASURE HUNTER

34

8. ISTARDUST Roadmap

38

9. ISTARDUST Team & Partner

39

10. ISTARDUST Legal Immunity Clause

41

Abstract
Based on the philosophy of "Human talent is blockchain," ISTARDUST is an Influencer
platform that enables everyone in the world to become an Influencer and create a fair
distribution of revenue through blockchain technology.
Through ISTARDUST, you can not only share your talent in music, art, fashion, IT, writing,
ideas, design, games, travel, donations, but also share what you own, participate in various
projects, communicate with everyone, create and enjoy your talent.
ISTARDUST is a platform that provides new opportunities through effective IP (intellectual
property rights) management, easy communication, convenient content modification,
continuous experience and on-line business links

3

Status of Influencer Industry
Google Search ‘Influence Marketing’ has increased by 1500% in the past 3 years

Sources : influencermarketinghub.com

Influence means a new word meaning "influence + er" to influence others. As SNS
developed, each channel had tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of followers,
leading the trend or influencing others, and they started to have a huge impact on people,
even though they were not as popular as traditional self-love and were not as popular as
celebrities for their looks or performances.
The global market for content creation, consumption and marketing through Influencer is
expanding and regenerating through the Millennium generation, which uses social
networking services based on mobile devices.

“Digital-era social media is used as a key channel for online users to share information, experiences

and thoughts. This is affecting more and more people from what other people say on social media.
In particular, 47 percent of the major buyers said social media affected their purchasing behavior,
far higher than 19 percent of other age groups. 74% of all online consumers make purchase decisions
with the help of social media.“
- Wall Street article excerpts -

So, worldwide, social networking-based Influencer content and marketing are having a
strong impact on viewers and consumers.

4

Status of Influencer Industry

Sources : influencermarketinghub.com

The increase in the market for Influencer marketing will lead to a growing desire for new
Influence Books and Content Diversity. However, the Influencer Market cannot avoid the
concentration of power by a small number of people, which has caused by many problems.
Many brands are enthusiastic about more influential Influencer and are paying them a lot
of advertising. As a result, if the content of Influencers is biased toward advertising
revenue, it is likely that the content of the brand other than the content you and the
consumer want will be reduced in quality, and the uniform content production that is
biased toward certain trends and the revenue structure that is focused on the minority will
harm the diversity of the content and threaten the ecosystem itself.
In case of MCN company, advertising marketing is only focused on Top Influencer.
The misshapen industrial structure, focused on the top Influencer, creates revenue and

difficulty in entering the market through advertising marketing by the sub-Influencers that
do not have many subscribers.
As a result, it is difficult for Influencers to create and sustain new content. In addition, the
company has difficulty in expanding its new business and operating human resources to
manage many Influencer.

5

Problems of Influence Industry
1. "What is the biggest problem in content production?"
• The existing Influence platform is a platform that connects Influencer to advertisers
only, and is designed to focus on creating advertising-based PPL content.
• The crowd funding platform connects producers and consumers, but problems arose
due to language, exchange rates, and payment issues.

1. "What's the biggest problem in content production?"

2. "What's the biggest problem with collaboration with
Influencer content?"

34%
32%
A shortage of
budget

27%
A shortage of
resources

33%

32%
17%
a lack of
expertise

24%
A lack of
time
Communication

Search for Influencer

Payment

*Proceeds a survey of 1,000 Global Influencer.

2. "What's the biggest problem with collaboration with Influencer content?"
• In the case of Influencer selection problems, the existence of appropriate Influencer
with the same vision and goals as yours and the accessibility of information about
where to find them. In addition, problems were created due to increased fatigue from
searches and subjective choices based on limited information.
• In the case of communication problems, it was suggested that communication
problems and regular exchange of conversations with foreign Influencer, not domestic

ones, were difficult due to communication problems and social networking services,
and that an integrated communication channel was needed.
• In the case of production cost issues, the question is when to pay production costs for
joint projects, and the question of financial problems such as taxes, exchange rates, and
money transfer issues has been raised, suggesting the need for reliable stabilization.

6

Definition of ISTARDUST
ISTARDUST is a blockchain-based composite platform that connects Influence, Subscribers
and Business around the world to generate revenue and donate money.
The company provides platform services in the form of individual templates that
complement existing Influencer marketing, crowdfunding, and talent sharing platforms,
and provides instant messaging services that make it easy to find and communicate with
Influencers around the world.
ISTARDUST's internal platform makes it easy to find Influencers books around the world,
participate in various projects and make donations. Through this process, you can
participate in content production, performance, marketing, service, etc. and receive
compensation based on your contribution.

Influencer
Creator

(Use to Creator’s Coin- Monetization)

User or Subscribers

(Use to Platform Cash – Donate)

For example, music Influents can distribute music that they collaborate with Influents
around the world. All products reviewed and collaborated by Influencer, such as beauty,
fashion, food, and goods, are provided through media commerce. You can purchase
ISTARDUST tokens with platform cache at low cost.
The game platform allows users to download existing games and blockchain-based games
reviewed by Influencers, and connects gamers and developers around the world. We will
also play various game leagues through ISTARDUST.
The ISTARDUST Platform Cache and Creator Coins can be donated, sponsored, and funded

by various projects, Influencer, and used on external platforms (music, games, media
commerce) and instant messaging (sponsoring, payment, and transaction) within the
platform. Creator and cash platforms listed on the coin is Exchange is an immediate
transition as a token ISTARDUST. Influencer the revenue is divided into for donations and
sponsorships by users user can. Of course, Creator through the qualification, users can be.

7

ISTARDUST Platform Features
ISTARDUST Platform

Various

Influencer

Legacy Platform

Interactive

Project

Content

Brand – Creator
Creator – Creator

Be focused on

Easy to find

Free

Influencer

communication

Any creator

Only

Advertising

One way

Marketing

Content

Brand – Creator

Be focused on

Hard to find

Difficult

Influencer

communication

Top Creator

Management of Influencer based on Data and Talent
•

A assessment on the Evaluation of the Manager and the Influencer

•

Motivates anyone to be a profit-generating creator

Comfortable communication
•

Free P2P project funding

•

Open chat rooms between Influencer

Easy and secure payment
•

Easily deal with and ensure reliability through platform cash and creator coins

•

Escrow services within the platform

Confident IP (copyright) management and content business links
•

Non-modulated Distribution Structure through Blockchain

•

Distribution of various content through platform services

8

ISTARDUST Platform Features

ISTARDUST uses blockchain-based platforms and services to help anyone become an
Influencer. Tokenized social platform that creates a variety of content and presents new
business opportunities.
You can check your influence and reliability through the ISTARDUST Influencer Rank
System, participate in various projects, and sponsor other Influencer Systems.
If Influencer Systems meet certain criteria, they can create their own Creator Coins as
content providers, and they can trade with other Influencer and fans.

• Fair assessment and reliability through the Influencer Rank system
• Support and reward the Creature Influencer on the ISTARDUST Platform
• Find and connect new friends by country and city
• Sell and purchase services on the ISTRADUST platform
(Media commerce / Music / Game)
• Real-time talks with Influencers worldwide via ISTRADUST Messenger
(translation service provided)
• Game, music, fashion, beauty, sponsorship, arts, business and entertainment
total of eight categories of service

9

How to Use the ISTARDUST Platform

Brand Project Progress Stage
Brand Project
Registration

Influencer Campaign
proposal

Accepting Brand
Proposals

Start
the brand Project

1. The projects registered by the brand will be open to Influencers.
2. After Influencer prepares a project proposal that meets the brand's requirements, apply.
The brand will review various proposals and the project will proceed with final acceptance.
3. After accepting the proposal, if you deposit the project amount, the Influencer Content
will be created.

4. Afterwards, marketing will be conducted through direct communication with Influencer.
10

ISTARDUST Platform Service

11

ISTARDUST Platform Use Cases
1. Music
#1. I am James, a composer. To complete the music I want, I need to play traditional
instruments in Africa. However, it is not easy to find someone who plays an instrument.
#2. I'm Akan. I'm one of those people who can play traditional African instruments. But not
many people know of my existence. I'm more afraid of our music disappearing than being
forgotten by people. I want to make an album once before I die.

#3. I am Eric, a famous vocal trainer. Now I want to let the world know my voice. I was able to
find a new project at ISTARDUST. This work will be released on my Instagram and YouTube.
#4. Through ISTARDUST, influenza from all over the world began to take an interest in our
project and supported it. And new contestants appeared. I will produce music videos and
album designs based on our music.“
#5. I'm Rick, the manager of the music distribution company. I want to distribute the music
that Eric, James and Akan participated in on our site. I think the variety of music and contents
created through ISTARDUST can transform the music industry.
#6. Our project has been released worldwide through the ISTARDUST MUSIC. Many people
listened to our music and shared our music profits with us and investors through ISTARDUST.
And those who participated in our project were able to download our music for free and keep
it.

12

ISTARDUST Platform Use Cases
2. Fashion
#1. Park Seung-woo, CEO of PLAC, who runs a jeans company, is planning a new design launch
through a collaboration with new designers and artists, but he is having a hard time recruiting
up-and-coming designers, artists and factories capable of producing small amounts of
products.
#2. Kim Jin, who runs a jean pants factory, has traditional manufacturing technology and
newly developed technology, but has recently been having difficulty in supply and demand of

clients due to the distribution structure that insists on a mass production system.
#3. A graduate of FIT in the United States, LEAH wants to launch the brand of jeans he
designed, but due to his lack of funds to address out-of-factory and distribution problems, he
is wondering whether to withdraw the deposit from his home and invest in new business or
get a loan from a bank.

13

ISTARDUST Platform Use Cases
2. Fashion
#4. A new project has been registered through Stardust. It's a new line of jeans to launch. Upand-coming designers and small-volume manufacturing companies were involved, and
distribution was conducted through PLAC. The limited number of jeans to be produced is
5,000 worldwide.
#5. People all over the world became interested in the redesigned jeans and joined the
project together. Fashion Influencer said they will market the brand of jeans that will be

launched. And they were able to receive profits for the quantity sold through them.
#6. The blue jeans produced were distributed through PLAC, and all quantities were quickly
sold through SNS marketing through the Fashion Influenza. This allowed everyone involved in
marketing and investment to receive a fair share of the proceeds, and each of the Influence
companies involved in the project was ranked higher through their participation and results,
so that they could receive additional tokens on the platform.

14

ISTARDUST Platform Use Cases
3. Beauty
#1. Irene, whose dream is to become a beauty YouTuber, participated in collaborative content
production projects by famous brands and global beauty creators through ISTARDUST.
#2. Through the progress of the brand project, we were able to succeed in producing our own
content with support from the brand for the marketing costs needed to produce our own
content.

#3. With the success of the project, I was offered a product collaboration through cosmetics
brand ISTARDUST. The limited edition collaboration product was supposed to be sold offline
through the mall, but it was only 20 percent off at ISTARDUST Media Commerce.
#5. Through ISTARDUST, Irene's cosmetics marketing was carried out as a new beauty
influencers. Various contents have been produced through various SNS such as YouTube and
Instagram.
#6. Irene cosmetics were distributed back and forth through brands, and through various
beauty influencer, they were able to sell all products quickly through SNS marketing effects.
This enabled the provision of fair profits and special benefits to all those involved in marketing
and projects.

15

ISTARDUST Platform Use Cases
4. Entertainment
#1. Kim Jie-ae graduated from the department of literary and artistic creation, and has already
written a lot of various synopsis. However, he has delivered his work to many production and
management agencies, but there is no reply. She posts her own scenario on Stardust, thinking
deeply about whether she should continue writing in front of the reality that she doesn't even
have a chance.
#2. Choi Jin-haeng is already a famous film director in the movie field. Recently, it wants to
expand its reach toward TV dramas, but it has been struggling with the formation of a closedminded community that rejects the entry of similar industries.
#3. A new production company, Jung PD, is planning a web drama, looking for a good scenario
and a new actor.
#4. It is not easy to show one's acting skills because of the preconceived notion that a singerturned-actress will act.
#5. Xiao of China is planning a web drama for his company in Korea. I'm looking for a scenario,
a Korean actor and a Korean filming team. I want to find a funny story, a new image of an
actor, and a talented filming team, but I have to figure out where and how to find it.
#6. Scenario, actors, local filming and distribution for web drama production have been solved
through ISTARDUST.
#7. The web drama ended successfully, and it became the most viewed drama in China. Some
of the proceeds from the drama were distributed to everyone who sponsored it through
ISTARDUST.

16

ISTARDUST Platform Use Cases
5. Art
#1. I'm a drone photographer, Lee Hak-sung. I pride myself on my talent being superior to
anyone's ability Under the theme of "Silver Nature," I want to host and exhibit the film in
Russia's Siberian Snow Garden. However, it was not easy to invite models and exhibition
spaces, so I registered with Stardust for the project and found people to work with.
#2. I'm Danilova, a Russian fashion influencer.
My friends and I decided to participate as models because there was a shooting in the Russian

where I live.
#3. The international conservation group has decided to invest in our project. It will proceed
with marketing and campaigns based on content created through the project.
#4. Amber, who runs a gallery in New York, got involved in the project while planning a new
exhibition of photography, displayed her work in the gallery she runs and decided to donate
part of the proceeds from the auction.
#5. Through ISTARDUST, the company has launched a sales service for Russian Siberian images

and photos created through the project.
#6. Profits through ISTARDUST were fairly distributed to artists, project sponsors and
international conservation groups.

17

ISTARDUST Function
1. Influencer Rank System
Anyone can be Influence if there's something that can influencer their talents, their goods,
their ideas, their business, their distribution network, etc. Influencer can register your
talents and other things in your profile.
ISTARDUST's ranking system is not based on measurement items based on existing SNS
subscribers, but is based on assessment by each category expert, advisor, and various
Influencers. You can gain confidence over existing statistical figures. This allows Influencer
to attract strong participation from other Influencer and advertisers.
Influencer checks its status and receives its own coin generation authority available on the
platform. This means that the rating will be raised from ordinary Influencer to Creator
Influencer, and the company will have the right to generate profits.

Profile
registration
SNS account authentication
Talent registration

Real-time
check
Platform manager / user

Influencer rank
determination

Activity start

Determining creator privileges

18

ISTARDUST Function
1. Influencer Rank System

RANK

Percentage

Platform Token (PT) Payment
(Fluctuation by exchange token price)

S

★ more than 20

20

A

★ more than 15

15

B

★ more than 10

10

C

★ more than 5

5

D

★ more than 1

4

Indications are generated based on the talents of the Influencers, which are implemented
through the Rank system and are based on the following criteria.. (Scatter scale ★★★★★)

• Career (occupation, occupation, area of interest, etc.)
• Talent result (content, achievement, physical property, human property, intellectual
property, etc.)
• SNS Fllowers (YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, etc.)
• Expert evaluation
• Evaluation of Other Influencers

The Influencer Rank system evaluates your value and provides you with a token to work

within the platform. The Rank system is updated regularly and serves as the basis for
judging project participation with other Influencers.

19

ISTARDUST Function
2. ISTARDUST Messenger – Communication System

Chat and Call

Game

Remittance

Individuals,
Groups

One person,
Two people,
PVP

Individuals,
Groups

Translation service,
Data call function

Dapp external
interlocks
available

ISTARDUST
no fees

Skin, Color, Etc
change,
Sticker service

Item
transaction

Escrow service

Transmission

Voice message,
Photographs,
Videos,
Sticker,
GIF

• Free communication with Influencers
• Participation and sponsorship of various projects
• Directly sponsored by Influencer (StarChat function)
• Token management through electronic wallet
• Project and Influencer search and recommendation service

Through the ISTARDUST messenger, you can find Influencer for your interests or business
connections, chat, participate in projects, call, and play games.
In addition, the translation system will be linked together to ensure smooth
communication with global Influencers.
Influencers can sell their own emoticons, stickers, and so on, and can be purchased
through the messenger through the ISTARDUST Coin and Platform Token. .
Through ISTARDUST's AI system, you can receive recommendations for projects of interest,
Influencer, and develop global Influencer Network.
20

ISTARDUST Function
2. ISTARDUST Messenger – Payment System

Chat and Call

Game

Remittance

Individuals,
Groups

One person,
Two people,
PVP

Individuals,
Groups

Translation service,
Data call function

Dapp external
interlocks
available

ISTARDUST
no fees

Skin, Color, Etc
change,
Sticker service

Item
transaction

Escrow service

Transmission

Voice message,
Photographs,
Videos,
Sticker,
GIF

There is no fee for ISTARDUST's Creator Coin transfer between Influencer and ISTARDUST
via Messenger.
You can see a variety of projects and participate through the platform cash and the
creator's coin You can also see additional rewards for projects you've promoted through
social mining.
Project funds are converted to coin through escrow service and can be guaranteed safety
You can download various games reviewed by Influencers. You can also receive various
additional rewards through game compensation, item trading, etc.
Additional services for the ISTARDUST external platform (media commerce, music, and
games) are provided through the messenger.
You can use it.

21

ISTARDUST Function
3. ISTARDUST Messenger – Sponsorship of Influencer and Project

Real-time funding is possible through the ISTARDUST token to Influencer who stream live
through the ISTARDUST messenger.
It can be linked to various platforms where Influencer is broadcast live. Through
ISTARDUST Messenger, chat rooms can be opened directly and connected to live
broadcasts, and ISTARDUST users have no commission for sponsorship to the Influencer.
Influencer can generate revenue based on sponsored tokens, which are cheaper than fees

on other traditional platforms, and can also be paid to its fans.
You can view various projects through the ISTARDUST Messenger, and you can directly
participate and sponsor them via token. Through sponsorship and participation, Influencer
can obtain platform activity points, which can be exchanged for token.

22

ISTARDUST Function
4. ISTARDUST Media Commerce

Products worldwide that need distribution and promotion through the ISTARDUST platform
can be marketed through content collaboration with various Influencers.
Content products reviewed by Influencers can be sold through ISTARDUST Media
Commerce.
Influencers can manufacture and sell their own products using their IPs.
It also supports the launch of cosmetics and fashion brands through ISTARDUST.
All products sold through the ISTARDUST platform are available through token and coin,
and are available at a 20% lower price than the consumer price.

23

ISTARDUST Function
5. ISTARDUST Music

Through the ISTARDUST music platform, we work with music Influencers around the world
to create a wide range of music sources.
Through the platform, you can find all the resources and Influencer for making music such
as songwriters, songwriters, chorus, choreographers, etc. In addition, you can create
records through sponsorship and distribute and promote your own music streaming
service.

Music produced by Influencers can be sold through ISTARDUST MUSIC. All products sold
are available through ISTARDUST token and coin, and are available at a 20% lower price
than the consumer price.

24

ISTARDUST Function
6. ISTARDUST Game

The ISTARDUST gaming platform activates not only the various blockchain-based DApp
games, but also the traditional gaming industry, and the ISTARDUST token makes it easy to
pay for and enjoy a variety of game services.
Glover game companies and Influencers can market together through review and
participation in games.
The elements needed to develop a game can be created by opening a project, and the

resources, capital, publishers, Influencers, and marketing required for development can be
easily configured.
The various DApp service providers can provide their services to the Stardust platform's
global Influencers and launch them through the game platform.

25

ISTARDUST Business Model

External Platform

Internal Platform
Influencer

Music content

- Individual sponsorship and

- Music release / Distribution and

Periodic sponsorship

publishing agents

- Employment at Influencer

- Fan-made concert agent

Platform Usage Fee

Video content

- Premium service

- Content External Platform Distribution

(Manager management)
- Mentor connection

Fashion / Beauty Commerce

Project Sponsorship

- Brand mall dedicated to Influencer

- Sponsored / Reward / Invested

- Supports cosmetic / Fashion product launch

Additional service

Game

- Project promotion / Data report

- Item exchange

- Emoticons, Stickers

- Download the game.

Payment
- Simple Payment of ISTARPAY Cash

26

ISTARDUST Token Summary
Methods of payment

ETH, BTC

Platform

Ethereum

Type

ERC20

Contract Address

0xf2354F740f31704820f6FcfBA70B9dA065459b62

Symbol

ISDT

Mining

No Mechanical Mining

Reward Mining

reward mining by sponsorship,
participate on influencer live content and event

Decimals

18

Max Supply

10,000,000,000 ISDT

Private Sale Limit

$100,000 per person

Issuer

LOUDLY SAGL

Issuing Country

Swiss

Address

Via Guglielmo Marconi 2 6900 Lugano

Accounting Audit

Auditing for ICO Funds usage breakdown

Website

www.istardust.io

27

ISTARDUST Token Sale
Project funds secured through pre-sales are used for system development and operation,
reserve funds for business development and securing intrinsic value of token, strategic
investment, marketing and alliance cooperation for service activation, general
management and reserve funds, etc. However, the use of the funds may vary depending
on changes in market conditions such as listing and the direction of the project's
implementation.

•

Sale (ICO, VC, Private) : 50%

•

Company Reserve: 20%

•

Reward : 15%

•

Development / Operation / Marketing : 10%

•

Team & Advisor : 5%

28

ISTARDUST Token Economy

ISTARDUST Token Purpose

Platform

Influencer industry

Utility

Activation

Convertibility
through
payment method

ISTARDUST Token Acquisition
By region of the world

ISTARDUST Platform

ISTARDUST Platform

Join

Platform activity

Buy on
the Exchange

Project & content
production
and support

Influencer
sponsorship
and donations

Payment
and transaction

ISTARDUST
Media Commerce

ISTARDUST
Music

ISTARDUST
Game

ISTARDUST Using Tokens

29

ISTARDUST Ecosystem
ISTARDUST TOKEN
The ISTARDUST Ecosystem is centered on the ISTARDUST TOKEN.
The ISTARDUST PLATFORM TOKEN (PT) is 1:1 exchange for the ISTARDUST TOKEN (ERC-20)
on the blockchain.
ISTARDUST TOKEN is a utility and platform call, which is necessary to use the services and
functions that Influencers provide on the ISTARDUST platform.

ISTARDUST TOKEN is an economic key value in the ISTARDUST Ecosystem.
ISTARDUST TOKEN can only be used and traded through electronic wallets, including the
ISTARDUST platform.
You can exchange the ISTARDUST TOKEN with a Platform Cash (ICASH) or Creator Coin (CC)
using the platform.
Platform Cash (ICASH) can be purchased through traditional payment methods (credit card,
Gift card, PayPal, etc.) and exchanged via the platform for ISTARDUST TOKEN.

The total volume of the platform's ISTARDUST TOKEN does not exceed the total volume of
the published ISTARDUST TOKEN.
30

ISTARDUST Ecosystem
ISTARDUST ASSET FLOW STRUCTURE

The green box shows the internal configuration of the ISTARDUST platform, which means
the platform cash, the ISTARDUST Creator's Coin (iCC) for the sponsorship, donation and
funding of each Creator Influencer, and the platform that responds 1:1 to the external
blockchain's ISTARDUST TOKEN (SDT), and all of the platform (PT).
In order to increase the utilization of ISTARDUST TOKEN issued in blockchain, the platform
has been required to create a configuration to distinguish assets held in accordance with
their respective Influencer roles.
Notice that Platform Token (PT) has attracted ISTARDUST Token, which exists in the
blockchain, into the Influencer platform with the same values and meanings.
31

ISTARDUST Ecosystem
ISTARDUST PLATFORM STRUCTURE

All Influencer Systems can purchase iCash, the platform cash.
If you have the iSDT(ISTARDUST TOKEN), you can exchange PT, which is the platform token,
to access inside the ISTARDUST platform, and purchase iCash, which is the platform cache
with the exchanged PT.
You can also purchase iCash directly through traditional cash payment methods.
With iCash, the platform cash, you can purchase the individual creator coin (iCC) of Creator
Influencer to participate in sponsorship, donation and cloud funding, and vice versa by
purchasing a PT to convert it to ISTARDUST TOOKEN, iSDT.
iCash is also available for all Influencer-related products, event products, and other media
and shopping mall payments provided by the ISTARDUST platform.
32

ISTARDUST ECO-System
ISTARDUST PLATFORM STRUCTURE

The iCCs sponsored, donated, and funded by Creator Influencer can be converted to
Platform Token (PT) and can be cashed differently than normal Influencer.
If you purchase PT with iCC, you can exchange it with cash, ISTARDUST TOKEN, iCash, and
use it both on and off the ISTARDUST platform. In addition, if you purchase PT with iCC, you
can buy limited iCashbag points, which can be used to reward or buy limited or original
creations of the Creator Influencer.
In order to purchase PT by paying iCC, you must pay a fee for your own template existing
on the platform, and the proceeds from the foundation will be used as a payment for
ISTARDUST TOKEN's reserve and platform maintenance costs.

33

ISTARDUST_TREASURE HUNTER

Absolute proliferation of subscribers and user influencer
Approximately 800 million Treasure Hunters and Partners MCN influencers and Subscribers

Platform Subscriber

Token User Switching for

Switching Rate

Platform Subscribers

0.01%

10%

2022. 1Q

80,000

8,000

2022. 3Q

160,000

16,000

2023. 1Q

350,000

35,000

2023. 3Q

800,000

80,000

Number of Influencer

ISTARDUST Users
800,000

80,000

350,000

35,000

160,000

16,000

80,000
2020.1Q

2022.1Q

8,000
2020.2Q

2022.3Q

2020.3Q

2023.1Q

2020.4Q

2023.3Q

2020.1Q

2022.1Q

2020.2Q

2022.3Q

2020.3Q

2023.1Q

2020.4Q

2023.3Q

34

ISTARDUST_TREASURE HUNTER

35

ISTARDUST_TREASURE HUNTER

36

ISTARDUST_TREASURE HUNTER

37

ISTARDUST Road Map

2021. 1Q

STEP 1
• Platform ver 1.0 Launch
• Development of NFT

STEP 2

2021. 2Q

• Platform Update (e-commerce service)

• NFT Beta-test

2021. 3Q

STEP 3
• Platform Update (project funding service)
• NFT Launch

STEP 4

2021. 4Q

• Platform update (game service)
• NFT Expansion - Global influencers

2022. 1Q

STEP 5
• Global Users 800,000

STEP 6

2022. 2Q

• Global Users 1,000,000

38

ISTARDUST Partners

39

ISTARDUST Team

CTO

Co-CEO

CEO

Nathan Ryu

Jaeyong Song

Design & Publishing
Team Manager

Wonjin Choi

Dongil Eom

Development
Team Manager

Director of Payment

General Accounts Director

Seowoo Lee

Kyoungmin Kim

Lead Blockchain
Developer

Kunsik Song

Sangil Han

Project Manager

Jinho Choi

North America Director

Southeast Asia Director

Director of E-Commerce

Shawn Kim

Vince

Junrae Choi

Advisor

Advisor

Mike Chi

Frank Fu

40

ISTARDUST Legal Immunity Clause

This document is intended to provide information, including the ideas and technical details of ISTARDUST to
unspecific people interested in ISTARDUST. The ISTARDUST Team carefully reviews the content and details the
technical details to create the information contained in this document, and makes reasonable efforts to keep
up to date with updates. However, this does not guarantee or claim that the ISTARDUST Team is accurate,
complete, or otherwise accurate in any of the content related to this document.
The content contained in this document is made at the time of creation, and not all or all of it is binding or
obligated. Therefore, the ISTARDUST Team shall not be held liable for damages caused by the use or non-use,
non-use, or inaccurate or incomplete information. In addition, the ISTARDUST Team is not responsible for any
acts other than providing information for the purpose of this document.
If conflicts exist in interpretation of other versions of this text, which are written in several languages other
than Korean, the latest version of the Korean version has precedence. However, this should also not be
understood as a guarantee of responsibility for the content of the Korean version.
No information relating to the ISTARDUST COIN contained in this document may be copied, modified,
distributed or provided to third parties without prior consent from the ISTARDUST Team.
The 'predictive Information' contained in this document is information that has not been individually verified.
This is not about past events, but about future events, and includes words such as 'expected', 'forecast', 'plan',
and 'expectations'. The above 'forecasting information' is influenced by changes in the environment, which
inherently implies uncertainty, which can cause significant differences in actual future performance from what
is stated or implied in 'forecasting information'. Also, please understand that the future outlook is based on the
date of data creation and considering the current market conditions and the development environment, which
can be changed according to changes in the environment and strategy in the future, and without notice.
The ISTARDUST Team shall not be held liable for any losses arising from the utilization of this material. In the
event that the terms or expressions of this exemption from legal liability based on this document are contrary
to the current statute, the terms and expressions shall remain in effect until the amendment, but shall remain
valid for the remainder of the exemption.

41

THANK YOU

ISTARDUST EXCHANGE PLATFORM

