IZE BLOCKCHAIN
TECHNOLOGY
IZE Token Project

IZE Fintech Blockchain
White Paper ver 1.0

Table of Contents

01 Background
02 IZE Project
03 IZE Blockchain Technology
04 Token Issuance
05 Team Members
06 Partners
07 Roadmap
08 Disclaimer
09 References

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

1. Background
1) Background of the Project
The birth of Bitcoin in 2008 has brought forth the emergence of blockchain technology. The
techonology is considered to be a value-creating platform technology that will lead the 4th
Industrial Revolution along with A.I., Big Data, IoT, AR, VR, and other cutting edge technologies.
Among these, the Big Data technology has high potential to advance with the use of blockchain.
In the age of blockchain, all data is considered as valuable digital asset that can be used in various
ways. Behaviors of individuals, corporates, operations of different countries and other
information are stored as big data, which is used to analyze the consumers of different markets
and predict the future.
IZE Fintech Project is based on a vision which a brings all the dispersed information in the world
on a platform to provide it to the data consumers in timely manner. With this vision, we are met
with the issue of extracting the valuable data without infringing the privacy of the information
provider. To overcome this matter, IZE undertakes the following missions:
Mission 1: A blockchain technology that protects the information and its provider and provides
compensation for sharing information.
Mission 2: An Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology and functions to collect fragmented data
Mission 3: A blockchain technology that recreates the collection of fragmented data into valuable
data to the data provider and provides appropriate compensation.
The existing blockchain projects related to data mostly deal with the usage of personal
information. This phenomenon is due to the foundations’ focus on token ecosystem
development to create economy for the progress of the business created by the foundations.
However, IZE focuses on data provision ecosystem which is a prerequisite to creating data usage
ecosystem by different industries.
IZE Blockchain team believes that mission projects such as IZE must be successfully implemented
to bring lasting innovation to the data industry market.

3

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

1. Background

2) Status of Data Market
In the 4th Industrial Revolution, data connects different industries. As information is shared
among different industries, a new type of business collaboration is made possible. The vast scope
of shared information can be used to create various business models to generate more values to
the participants.
As the forerunner of the 4th Industrial Revolution, AI and Big Data markets are enjoying
exponential growth, while the importance of Big Data industry is increasing to aid the
advancement of A I industry. This means business is driven by data, and the future of business
will depend on the how well the data is utilized. Such data are being shared according to the
needs of the different industries. During the process, the data is reformed and reproduced to
create even greater scale of Big Data to generate new types of business.
According to “Data Industry Market Report” the data distribution market size is expected to
increase from 69.6 billion USD in 2015 to 132.3 billion USD in 2020.

Data Industry Market
69.6B USD in 2015

Data Utilization Information Service Market
1.5 T USD in 2016

132.3B USD in 2020

[Size of Global Data Market]
451 Research ‘Data Industry Market Report’, Outsell ‘Information Industry Outlook 2017’

4

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

1. Background

3) Issues in the Data Market

-

Security of the Collected Private Information

Private information of the information provider is at risk of hacking, and damages occurred from
such accidents are growing. One of the major banks in the U.S., Capital One was hacked, leaking
personal information of 106 million customers. The customers’ information was found to be
stored on Amazon Cloud, causing even more concern that even the data storage service of large
cloud service firm could not guarantee complete security on the stored data.
Service providers and other corporates are storing personal information on internal storage
system, increasing the risk of being hacked and other leakages. Companies are investing a great
amount of time and expense to protect their information, but security of the data protection is
not such an easy task as the hackings are taking place all over world.
Major Personal Information Hacking Incidents

Major Personal Information Hacking Incidents

(Unit: 100M people)

30

Yahoo

MS

3.39 in 2018

Marriott
Equifax

(Unit: %)

Amazon

1.48 in 2017

Heartland Payment

1.30 in 2009

LinkedIn

1.17 in 2016

* Leaked Personal Information

Source: Wall Street Journal

33
*2Q. 2019

16
Google

8
Source: Synergy Research Group

5

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

1. Background

3) Issues in the Data Market

-

No Appropriate Valuation on Private Information

Information providers are not properly compensated for their shared information.
Information providers believe that their agreement to share information in limited within
their signed membership services, but this is not true. From the perspective of information
collector, the private information creates a new value regardless of the information
provider’s usage of service. Major internet service providers have access to exclusive
personal information that can generate massive profit, thus causing unreasonable
transaction structure.

-

Increased Diversity and Efficiency in the Big Data Information Market

Big Data technology generates, collects, analyses, and expresses massive scale of information
collected all over the world. Big data is useful in forecasting the various areas of our society for
efficient operation, while providing customized information for each person and realize
innovative technologies that were thought to be impossible in the past.
According to Gartner Inc., the size of Big Data will increase from 40 Zettabytes(ZB) in 2020 to
170ZB in 2025.
Global Data Generation
Source: Gartner

Global SNS Users

(Unit: Zettabyte)

2B

Facebook

40

30

(Unit: person)

*As of Sep. 2017. Source: Statistica

*Zettabyte
Multiple of the unit byte for digital
information. The prefix zetta indicates
multiplication by the seventh power of
10000 or 1021

1.5B

Youtube
Whatsapp

1.3B

20

Facebook
Messenger

1.3B

10

WeChat
QQ

963M
850M

0
2011

2012

2013

2016

2020

Instagram

700M

6

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

The expanding size of big data is mostly due to the use of SNS. Experts foresee that most of the
information will be regenerated through SNS. As of 2017, the total number of Facebook users are
2 billion, Instagram 700 million, and 300 million for Twitter. According to recent statistics, the
number of SNS users increase 800 per minute. Newsfeed, shares, and other activities add to the
big data.
However, the value and accuracy of the data depends on analysis. Data should be approached
from the perspective of demand and usage, thus it is important to improve the understanding
and usage of the data. Most corporates are currently working on improving their ways of utilizing
collected data. According to IDC, the total profit generated from big data and business analysis
will increase from 130 billion USD in 2016 to 203 billion USD in 2020, which is at annual average
growth rate of 11.7%.
Weapons of Math Destruction, a book written by Harvard mathematician and hedge fund analyst
Cathy O’Neil, warns the danger of big data exploitation to criticize the current trend on
unregulated reliance on data usage. O’Neil explains how big data based on logic and practicality
can reinforce preexisting inequality. The book emphasizes the importance of human analysis on
the big data.
Recently, corporates have begun to hire chief data officers (CDO) to properly analyze the collected
data to make the best possible decisions. Such movement illustrates how blockchain technology
can be applied to manage the diversity and efficiency of big data.

7

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

-

Bilateral Trust on Data

As demands for data increase, the providers and users of information question the reliability of
information and its protection. While the providers cannot see if their information has been
accurately presented to the users, while the users are burdened with evaluating the reliability of
the information they have acquired. To improve such shortcomings, information providers must
have access to a transparent information sharing system, while the information evaluation tool is
made available to the users. Such evaluation system must be undertaken by a third party, making
blockchain an ideal technology to take on the role.
The implementation of a decentralized consensus mechanism within the blockchain ecosystem
enables all participants to update the reliability of data. This structure will allow users to access
the most updated data at all times, creating efficient use of the data for improved performance.

-

Data Marketplace

The value of the provided information is determined by the provider and user’s agreement. The
bilateral consent mechanism must be designed to enable the two parties to decide the value of
the information without the interference of a third party, while allowing experts to take part in the
evaluation to improve the reliability of the price.

8

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

2. IZE Project
The following illustrates the model of our blockchain project, which aims to seek efficiency of information
acquisition, diversity of information, and to protect the privacy of information provider.

1) IZE Blockchain Development Summary

-

Strategy 1: Data Acquisition Strategy

Maximize the amount of data acquired through dualistic method of active and passive data
collection.
-Active Data Acquisition: data collected through surveys and direct questions to the information
holder
-Passive Data Acquisition: Processing information that the information holder has provided on
webpages and other medium.
In active data acquisition, IZE Application will be used to send out online questionnaires and
surveys to the users to acquire data. The information provider will receive IZE token as reward.
In passive data acquisition, IZE Add on, a web and mobile Chrome expansion application will be
used to process the users’ information with an AI solution. The information provider will be
rewarded IZE tokens for installing the IZE Add on and the time spent on web crawling. Also, IZE
Mainnet maintenance expense will be compensated by IZE Staking on IZE Add-on.

-

Strategy 2: Information Storage and Protection Strategy

To secure protection on the acquired information and prevent hacking, Stroj storage and
InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) uses encrypted blockchain-based database and distributed
blockchain systems. Confidential information is protected by zero-knowledge proof mechanism.

-

Strategy 3: Information Process Strategy

General purpose Spark technology is suitable for AI technology solution to implemented to
process big data. Spark is ideal in implementing large-scale big data analysis and machine
learning application programs.
IZE project aims to strategize blockchain information technology for data to complete IZE
missions and its business objectives.

9

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

2. IZE Project
The following illustrates the model of our blockchain project, which aims to seek efficiency of information
acquisition, diversity of information, and to protect the privacy of information provider.

2) DApp Feature

-

IZE Application

IZE Application collects information provided online or on mobile to share the collected data to
users who need it.
Information collection is undertaken within the range of information that can be directly
rewarded, such as areas listed below.
IZE project enables the development of information sharing DApp by using data targeting
algorithm that connects information providers and users. DApp providers are given the right to
create nodes on IZE blockchain. DApp users can collect data using various devices.

Information sharing DApp provider
(Corporate)
Information
Provider
(Individuals)

AI Data Targeting Algorithm

Information
User
(Individuals,
corporates)

Targets information holders
Online, mobile research
Commission research on specific topics
Spot preference surveys
Product, service preference surveys
Media, politics, culture preference surveys

10

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

Information users can access more meaningful information based on targeted researches on
panels (information providers) analyzed by AI data targeting algorithm. This algorithm enables a
more objective and rational model due to AI model participation of DApp provider.
Incentives include: rewards for providing information and taking surveys, and referrals to
increase the demands for information providers.
Compensation for data from the panels (information providers) is made in IZE tokens through
airdrops that meet the DApp providers’ node qualifications. Information users can purchase the
information they need with IZE tokens.

-

IZE Add-On Web Browser Add-On Application

This is used for collect data provided on web browsers by data owners. IZE Add On is developed
in the form of a web browser add-on.

11

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

IZE Add On is an add-on application for Google Chrome. The application stores information
collected from the information providers’ crawling. Web browser Add-on data is processed into
meaningful information through analysis algorithm. Prior to the AI analysis, the information
acquired through crawling must be evaluated on its contribution to data information ecosystem
in order to process it into meaningful information. The value provided to the information
ecosystem is in proportion to crawled time quantitative analysis, and blockchain algorithm of
Proof of Value (PoV) in term of qualitative analysis.
The method of Proof of Value (PoV) is based on the provision of information and its consumption.
PoV is derived from the data usage excluding malicious purpose. In our PoV algorithm will include
the measurement of consumption as well as a rating system created by the developer of IZE
application.

[Data PoV and Rating System]
Proof of Value

DApp provider

Provider
Evaluation

Utility

Data Registration

Vote Registration
on blockchain

Data Evaluation

Panel Evaluation

Data Analysis

Scalability

Flexibility
Nonfalsification

AI Data
Analysis
and
Recomm
-endation

Data
Categorization
Data
Recommendation

Compensation

Compensation
Ranking Change

Rating Change

12

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

3) IZE Blockchain Structure and Ecosystem

IZE proposes a service in which providers of information in various areas and the data users can take advantage of
trustworthy transaction system based on blockchain so that the participants can reap rewards for sharing
information and use the information to make profits.

IZE project is designed to protect private information while seeking the efficiency of data
information to meet the users demand. IZE application collects information the user needs to
operate his business, while IZE Add On service rewards the big data participants with benefits
and compensations through Add-On data analysis algorithm.
IZE Project provides two solutions:
1. IZE Application: this application is designed to motivate various participation of
information providers. This is application enables research firms, DApp providers to
affiliate for direct compensation and data sales.
2. IZE Add On: IZE Add On browser scaling program analyses the users’ information through
AI targeted analysis algorithm to provide meaningful information to advertisers and data
sales market.
Confidential information is protected through zero-knowledge proof mechanism, while Big
data storage is distributed through IPFS to provide encrypted blockchain-based database.
Spark technology is utilized to process big data to implement fast large-scale big data analysis
and machine learning application program.
IPFS Database

[IZE Blockchain Structure and
Ecosystem]

3. De-identified user
information stored
4. Request information provision

1. Provide user data

Information provider

7. Compensation (IZE)

8.

Ma

eA

IA

na

ge
u

Information User
2. Store personal information

Pr
op

os

9.

5. Purchase data (IZE)

Dapp
(Service Provider)

se

rd

ata

lgo

rit

hm

Da
ta

e

vid
ro
P
.

at
a

d
ted
e
g
r

a
rt

e
us

6

Ethereum Blockchain

13

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

4) Big Data Business Expanding in Fintech Platform Field

IZE project aims to apply data processed from personal information to various business fields
in fintech transaction platform. Individual information providers and the corporate,
organizations, and agencies that utilize such information can create a data trading ecosystem in
which all the participants benefit from a sustainable business environment.
DApp providers of IZE ecosystem can also develop specialized DApps based on the information
acquired from individuals.

Organizations that utilize individuals’ information

Finance

Credit Card
Companies

Insurance

Telecommunication

Game

Examples of Big Data Utilization
● Finance: Analyze the user’s financial transactions to propose well-suited products
● Credit Card Company: Analyze the user’s spending patterns to provide promotions

and discounts.
● Insurance: Analyze the user’s insurance and their interest to create new insurance
products and services
● Telecommunication: Analyze the user’s service usage to create new plans and
promotions.
● Games: Analyze the user’s game activities to design the appropriate balance.

Provide service

Organizations that
use the collected
data

Collect Big data on the users

Provide rewards and
benefits

Information
providers

14

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

5) An example of Big Data Service in Fintech Platform Field
IZE platform implements a shared-economy based ecosystem among individual information providers
and groups that use the information such as corporates, organizations, and agencies. All the
participants of the ecosystem create a win-win model in a sustainable business environment.
The information IZE Fintech platform providers acquire is utilized by the finance service providers to
customize their products and service to individual customers, while the information providers are
rewarded in IZE and payment services for the finance service providers.
IZE platform increases the value of individuals’ information while the individuals are given the
opportunities to enjoy the rewards and benefits for letting the organizations to utilize their information.
This model creates a new information-sharing business ecosystem.
Information providers share their information on IZE platform, which analyze the information as a big
data to form an information asset. Such asset is then sold to the finance service providers who use the
data to customize their products and create affiliation with potential customers and marketing
agencies. Information providers are compensated for their sharing by receiving IZE coins, and the
information using organization can pay for the usage with IZE coins. Bonus IZE coins can rewarded if
recommended products are purchased by the individuals to strengthen the ecosystem.

[Example of Financial Product
Recommendation System]

User

Product
Recommendation,
Sales Affiliation

Service / Product
Purchase
Marketing

Information Asset

Data

Purchase

Accumulation

IZE
Financial
Institutions / Service
Providers

Big Data Analysis

Informatio
n sharing

Provide
analysis

Affiliation

Analysis

Profit
Product
Recommendation,
Sales Affiliation
Financial
Institutions /
Service
Providers

IZE Rewards/
Benefits

Information users

15

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

6) An example of Big Data Service in Game Platform Field
IZE platform is applicable in game industry in creating a data sharing ecosystem. Initial game
economy planning stage undertaken by a few planners can cause big errors, which can cause
costly repairs. In IZE platform, game users’ information is collected in a big data to analyze the
problems of existing games and provide insights for new games. This information can reduce
risks during game development and management. The information provider is rewarded with
IZE for their sharing of information, and game developers can make payment for the users’
information in IZE.
Certain data of the game users such as personal information, items, payment, etc. are collected
to be processed a part of big data. Behavioral data analysis based on the big data is processed
with AI to create periodical preference model, such as item preference, playing style to
customize products for each user. Such statistical data is sent to the game developers in real
time to recommend new games, plan new games and implement economy system, and
maximize profit on item sale.
Game developers, stores, and marketing agency can make payment for data with IZE, while
game users can receive IZE rewards by playing games.
[Example of Game Data Service System]
Personal Data of Users
Stocked Item Details
Payment Information

Share Data
Personal Game Data
Big data

Tracking on
recommendation and
user behavior

Behavioral Data
Analysis

AI (Machine
Learning)
Generate
recommendation model
based on periodic
behavioral analysis

Recommend machine
learning model
Recommend
New Games

Corporate
User

Plan Games and Create
Economy ecosystem

Share Ecosystem
Value

Maximize Item Profit

User

16

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

3. IZE Blockchain Technology
1) IZE Smart Contract
Ethereum is an open source blockchain platform consisting of decentralized virtual machines that run
Ethernet nodes to implement point-to-point agreements by connecting to a distributed computing
network, and all devices that operate Ethereum, the dedicated cryptocurrency. “Distributed” means
that anyone can create and run an Ethereum node just as like that of a Bitcoin. Although Ethereum is
often compared to Bitcoin, there are differences. While Bitcoin is only a blockchain and payment
network, Ethereum is a decentralized computing network where a variety of applications can be built
by executing customized smart contracts through the blockchain.
Smart contracts are computer programs that run automatically on Ethereum virtual machines, and
always perform according to defined rules. They can respond to and store received messages, or send
out information and value. In short, smart contracts are the digital version of traditional contracts.
Smart contracts are computer programs that run on the blockchain and can be automatically executed
when conditions written in the source code are met. Since the contract terms cannot be manipulated,
users can rely on smart contracts.
IZE's smart contract represents the data type definition and data manipulation guidelines. This means
it includes data structure and its related algorithms. The definition of data manipulation acting as the
core of the smart contract because it implements the actual logic flow of smart contract, and the data
type definition helps with implementation. IZE smart contract tasks are implemented in a messagebased communication structure, and clients invoke tasks by sending messages to Ethereum nodes.
Upon receiving a message, the Ethereum node requests the relevant source and executes the smart
contract WebAssembly (WASM) code. If the code runs smoothly, the Ethereum node proceeds with
other tasks. Several tasks can be combined to form a transaction executed with combined nodes, while
tasks can be sent and executed individually or in combination.
Each node in the blockchain network receives a copy of the smart contract from the Ethereum
blockchain in the macro phase to executes each task in the contract. After the contract is sent to the
blockchain, the smart contract owner receives the verification certificate generated by the node.
However, this verification does not mean that the transaction has been confirmed, but that the node
has processed it without error. Not all nodes execute each smart contract in the actual process. While
some blockchain nodes perform the actual work of smart contracts, other nodes process the validation
of the transaction block.

17

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

-Smart Contract Development
To provide improved smart contract development environment, Ethereum has developed more
complete intelligence contract platform, implemented Solidity, a Turing-complete intelligent
contract programming language, and supports a virtual machine that enables the Ethereum
blockchain to develop, test, and deploy smart contracts. Other types of services are rare, and
are likely to cause congestion on the Ethereum network when processing a large number of
users.
In order to provide a more intelligent contract platform and support the development and
operation of large scale business DApp, IZE smart contract system suggests improvement of the
standard library based on the following structure.

[IZE Smart Contract Components]

18

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

IZE implements a high-level application interfaces beyond virtual environments and advanced
languages to enable developers to work more efficiently. The general programming languages
support the standard library, but it is worth noting that smart contract programming languages
rarely provide this type of support. For example, the C programming language specification not
only defines retained keywords, data types, vocabulary, and grammar, but also provides a
standard library to simplify software development.
Another example is that the C standard library includes a math function (math.h), an input /
output process (stdio.h) and a general library (stdlib.h). IZE provides a standard library to
ensure its developer-friendliness and minimization of security risks. The standard libraries will
encourage developers to build more applications based on IZE smart contracts and help
promote IZE's ecosystem.
- Implementation of Smart Contract

Compiled Web3

Request RPC

Distribution
on Ethereum
and
interaction
with Smart
Conctract

Use local
complle

Solidity
Code
Compile

Return compiled code
19

[IZE Smart Contract Execution]
The concrete implementation of the IZE smart contract is a decentralized app, or DApp. The key
to DApp is the implementation of secure, efficient and transparent applications. DApps run on a
computer network and adjust actions by passing messages or sharing memory between
application instances. Blockchains are more available than decentralized databases, and in the
event of failure, such as network partitioning, outperforms centralized applications Currently, it
is a common practice to separate most storage tasks from the DApp.

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

The tasks are performed on other distributed computing nodes and the results are returned in
the blockchain to ensure the data integrity and transparency. In relation to the IZE platform, the
token usage and transfer process is stored on the Ethereum blockchain to prevent tampering of
the transaction records and tokens, and to facilitate the tracking and retrieval of tokens
afterwards. Since all IZE records are stored on the blockchain, the transparency of the
blockchain technology improves the user's confidence in transactions on the IZE platform (e.g.,
transaction records can be tracked and audited). The execution process of DApp is as shown in
the [IZE Smart Contract Execution] diagram. RPC protocol interaction with the local Ethereum
nodes is done through Solidity code compiled locally or from Web3. At the end, smart contracts
are placed in the main Ethereum chain according to pre-designed and irreversible logic.
- RPC Operation Structure
Remote Procedure Call (RPC) is a computer communication protocol that allows programs
running on one computer to call subroutines on another computer without the programmer
having to program the interaction. RPC is a distributed computing model, in which a client
sends a request to a server to execute multiple processes. The server accepts and processes the
request using the parameters provided by the client. When the calculation is complete, the
result is returned to the client. In the field of distributed computing, there are many RPC
protocols such as early CORBA, Java RMI, RPC styles of web services, Hessian, Thrift, REST API,
and etc.

20

[RPC Operation]
The IZE platform communicates with Ethereum using RPC. Since smart contracts run on the
main chain of Ethereum, all IZE user operations enter the Ethereum network through RPC. This
can ensure normal interaction of the IZE smart contract.

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

2) IZE Data Storage

IZE allows user data and files to be stored and shared in a distributed storage system called
InterPlanetary File System (IPFS). IPFS is an encrypted blockchain-based database, or distributed
blockchain file system. Data files such as videos may be stored through encryption and shared
with selected users. Specifically, a user can encrypt data using his key pair (asymmetric
encryption) and store the encrypted data in IPFS. Asymmetric encryption allows IZE users to
encrypt data using the public key of another user to share the data. The selected users can then
decrypt the file using their private key to view the files, such as shared media. Unauthorized users
cannot decrypt the file because their private key and the public key used to encrypt the data do
not match, which ensures the privacy of the users.

Encr ypted Data

Data Provided

User A

IPFS File Hash
QmT4AeW E9Q9EaoyLJiqaZuYQ8
mJeq4ZBncjjFH9dQ9uDVA

Storage System

IPFS File Hash
QmT4AeW E9Q9EaoyLJiqaZuYQ8
mJeq4ZBncjjFH9dQ9uDVA

Encr yption

User B

Public Key

Decr yption

User B

Public Key

The above diagram illustrates the how data is selectively shared with the user's consent.
Details: User A wishes to share the information he submitted only with User B.
IZE uses User B's public key to encrypt User A's media data. IZE uploads an encrypted data file
to IPFS to get a hash of the encrypted file.
User B has the private key associated with the public key used to encrypt the file, so he can
access the file and decrypt it. However, other users cannot decrypt the file because they do not
have the private key of User B.

21

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

IPFS can be seen as a data storage protocol similar to BitTorrent, with a variety of operations on
files via hash references for more diverse program interactions using fully distributed
interactions. Usually, blockchain has a dedicated BPM module that can store simple text records
very efficiently, making cryptocurrency a suitable module to run on the blockchain. In the
cryptocurrency application scenario, the BPM module only records the sender, recipient, and
cryptocurrency of the transaction, making it easy for the BPM module to run efficiently. However,
in the case of storing a large amount of data, such as text or personal information, the efficiency
of blockchain storage becomes very low because all the data hashes must be calculated and
verified each time a block is created. Maintaining chain integrity causes very inefficient block
creation.
To solve this problem, recent approaches utilize a combination of IPFS and blockchain. IZE stores
only the hash value of the IPFS-generated storage file, or the user data, on the Ethereum
blockchain instead of the BPM. This ensures the simplicity of the data required for the blockchain,
while achieving the benefits of fully decentralized IPFS simultaneously.

Figure. Block Unit of IPFS File Hash

22

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

3) IZE Data Traceability
At the same time, encrypted data hash can be stored on the blockchain to track all records.
Below is a detailed explanation of how IZE tracks the stored information:
A project configuration file (DIP file extension) is provided that specifies all unique numbers
stored in IZE, and is stored in the encrypted blockchain-based database, IPFS. The hash value of
DIP is mapped onto Ethereum network and blockchain (sidechain).
A DIP file consists of digital containers that store reference information for digital documents
and records. All events can be collected and tracked and the records in the DIP are stored in
chronological order. The time stamps and hash values of the previous records form smaller
blockchain groups that constitute the transactions within each DIP. The record also requires
that the signature of the creator's private key to increase the verifiability of each record.

IZE IPFS
SMART CONTRACT

User Data

Financial
Data

Reserch
Data

[Blockchain Data Traceability]

23

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

4) IZE Data Processing
IZE uses Spark to build a Big Data processing platform. Spark is ideal for building large-scale,
low-latency Big Data analytics and machine learning applications, and is the required technology
of the IZE platform.
The platform can be used to perform machine learning tasks on data related to the user actions in
different events. For example, the IZE Big Data Processing Platform can be used to examine the
behaviors of users accessing specific files to better understand their interests for more accurate
marketing.
Specifically, Spark is an open source cluster computing environment similar to Hadoop, but there
are some differences between the two, making Spark better suited for some workloads such as
Spark Big Data Processing Platform. In particular, Spark can activate data sets distributed in
memory, provide interactive queries, and optimize repetitive workloads.

IZE PLATFORM

[Spark Big Data Process Platform]
24

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

5) AI Technology Application Cases
Artificial intelligence solution is used for the IZE Application Data Targeting Algorithm and the IZE add
on web browser, Add-On Data Analysis Algorithm.

- Targeted SNS Analysis

The development of the internet and mobile services has made connection among people more
dynamic and complex. The connection among people not only serves a distribution channel for
various data and contents, but also influences decisions, including purchasing activities. With the
professional AI solutions, IZE will extract semantic nets from social media, email and massive number
of corporate documents to analyze their structures to ascertain the knowledge and mutual influence
interchanged throughout the network.
Such in-depth analysis based on machine learning enables diverse evaluation on core analysis, cluster
analysis, shortest path analysis, key player analysis, core node analysis by subject, related node
analysis by subject, and core node analysis by related subject. and many more. It aims to implement
the real-time analysis function for the data circulated on the network.

Documents
Network
Analysis

Network
Composition

Data
extraction,
Summary

[AI Analysis Algorithm on SNS]
-Object Recognition Analysis
Machine learning-based object cognitive analysis automatically extracts (boundary distinction) objects
(such as company name, person name, area name, date, time, amount, etc.) from data and classifies
the extracted objects. It aims to implement a function that enables automatic real-time analysis of
correlations.

25

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

6) Mainnet Development
At the beginning of its development, IZE token will be an ERC-20 token, and the mainnet will be
developed to accommodate rapid data transaction, compensation, and AI analysis management.
For the future of the platform, it would be necessary for the platform to integrate various blockchain
projects. Also a technical configuration to swap or exchange with other coins would be required to
enable interaction in the data platform.
Currently, there is no unified protocol between Ethereum-type coins and other coins with each
ecosystem being developed simultaneously. It is also ironic that the exchange of coins and tokens can
only be done through a centralized exchange.
We aim to develop our blockchain technology to appeal to the current situation. This development
would need to improve the scalability and interoperability of the business in the data exchange and
reward ecosystems.
Considering various factors, the IZE blockchain platform will be based on the technology of
Tendermint-Cosmos Platform, which has been making progress in the blockchain field for a long time.
Tendermint-Cosmos has a Tendermint consensus protocol with a partially synchronous BFT (Byzantine
Fault Tolerant) consensus protocol. In other words, Tendermint is a consensus algorithm that blends
the Delegated Proof-of-Stake (DPoS) concept with the PBFT concept. The characteristic of TendermintCosmos is interoperability, and to maximize the potential of the blockchain, it is necessary to create an
"internet where all the blockchains are connected on a unified protocol." For this purpose, the Cosmos
team proposes IBC (Inter-Blockchain Communication) protocol.

Tendermint Reference
https://tendermint.com/docs/ cosmos
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos

26

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

7) IZE Blockchain Platform Solution
Tendermint-Cosmo blockchain based IZE Blockchain features the followings characteristics.

Fast Consensus
About 2,000 transactions are processed per second for fast transactions on the platform.
Ultimately it aims to achieve the speed of 10,000 TPS.
Smart Contract
IZE blockchain supports smart contracts with data exchanging organizations, full compatibility
with Ethereum, and full conversion of IZE blockchain with other smart contracts without any
changes in the distributed application code.
Safety
Safe transaction of intangible assets such as cryptocurrencies and monetary assets between the
data service providers and consumers is equally important as the fast transaction. IZE
implements abnormality detection technology to prevent faulty transactions or hackings.
Low Fee
Low transaction fee enables businesses to activate IZE Blockchain ecosystem and protect their
profit.

DApp Wallet

AI, Big Data, Certificates, etc.

Apache Cassandra

Blockchain

27

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

4. Token Issuance

1) Issuance Details
The total issuance of IZE token will be 10 billion.

Presale
Distribution
Platform Development and Operation
Marketing
Team
Partners
Advisors

IZE
Token

Type
Total issuance

No. of Tokens

Ratio

10,000,000,000

100%

4,000,000,000

40%

1,500,000,000

15%

1,000,000,000

10%

Marketing

1,000,000,000

10%

Team

1,000,000,000

10%

Partners

1,000,000,000

10%

Advisors

500,000,000

5%

Presales
Distribution in the
ecosystem
Platform Operation and
Development

Total

10,000,000,000

Remark

100%

28

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

5. Team Members
Yu Onodera
•
•
•
•

Founder

Managed and operated FX management system and IT consultant company
Over 10 years of experience in various business consulting
Began research on blockchain technology and drafted the IZE project in 2013
Contacted several companies and organizations in 2017 to strengthen the
foundation of this project.

Ricky Yujin Lohmeyer

Chief Strategy Officer

• Served at American Airlines as operating agent at Narita International Airport from
1991 to 1996.
• Operated a chemical pumps and oil skimming equipment manufacturing firm from
Jun. 1996 to Oct. 2005
• Has experience in sales and processing of chemical pumps used in chemical
plants, automobile factories, oil refineries and other areas.
• Managed a general trading company specializing in industrial facilities in Japan
from 2006 to 2013
• Has been managing a company that plans and sells prepaid travel cards and a
travel agency specializing in inbound and outbound travels since 2014
• Established a joint management company in Sri Lanka to carry out urban
development and environmental improvement projects to expand its business into
Asia.

Kanchana Eric Sinharage

Chief Marketing Officer

• Experience in public relations and welfare
• Experience in organizing and networking of various cultural and multinational
groups
• Has been involved in various government, private sector, NGO projects
• Project chairman of the road development department of Sri Lanka
• President of Colombo Prison Welfare Association
• Coordinator in Social Service Sector
• Coordinating Officer of Special Project Department of Sri Lanka

Murilo Osamu Nobo

Chief Technical Officer

• Self-taught cryptocurrency researcher since 2016
• Held private cryptocurrency seminars to spread the knowledge on cryptographic
assets
• Participated in Keikoku activities in Cambodia
• Participated in ICE platform smart contract business for ICO related projects
• Appointed as the Director Bear Valley Holdings (blockchain technology developer
for Comoros Association)
• Developed blockchain related services for payment service providers, wallet
service providers, affiliation providers, etc.

29

IZE fintech | Whitepaper ver 1.0

6. Partner

Company : Regina entertainment

Business : Planning and developing digital
content and creating
entertainment for providing
Internet games

Company : Nice group
Business : Personal and corporate credit ratings ,
Asset Management,
ATM, Cash Logistics

Company : Pay up
Business : Online and offline integrated payment services
(Card, SMS, Device, Virtual Account Payment)

30

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

6. Partners

Company: AlphaPrime Lanka (Pvt) Ltd.
Areas of business: private banking, fiat exchange,
cryptocurrency exchange, cryptocurrency custody, E-wallet,
gold trading, microfinance

Company: Bitwide Co., Ltd
Area of business: blockchain game, blockchain investment,
cryptocurrency exchange platform development

Company: Ntoz Soft
Areas of business: educational software development,
system engineering, mining pool development

30

IZE fintech | Whitepaper ver 1.0

7. Road Map

2019

2020

03 •

Finalized project concept
and its components
Finalized team members
Created CI/BI
Planning and Design

02

• List IZE on exchanges

05

• Sought partner affiliations

05 •

Planned white paper
Finalized basic coin

12

08 •

Planned service
Planned mainnet

•
•
•
•
•

11

•
•
•
•
•

Formed legal and finance
team
Began Pre-Sale
Reviewed exchanges
Completed white paper
Completed DApp
planning

2022

2021

01 •
08
11

• Design IZE Application

Design IZE Add

03 •

Complete the mainnet planning

•

Create
IZE Application MVP

05 •

Launch IZE Application Beta

•

Create
IZE Add On MVP

08 •

Launch
I
IZE Add On Beta

12 •

Complete mainnet

31

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

8. Disclaimer
This document is intended to provide information to the unspecified people who are interested in IZE
Blockchain Project and its blockchain token ecosystem and technical details.
IZE Blockchain Team has carefully reviewed the contents and described the technical details to create
this document. Every reasonable effort has been made to deliver the latest information through updates
on the document. However, this does not guarantee or assert that the IZE Blockchain Team is wholly
accurate or complete in any matter regarding the content of this document. The information in this
document is current as of the date of publication, and all or part of the information is not binding or
obligatory. Therefore, IZE Blockchain Team assumes no liability whatsoever for damages resulting from
the use or non-use of the information described in this document, or damages resulting from inaccurate
or incomplete content.
In addition, IZE Blockchain Team assumes no responsibility for any acts done by using this document for
any purpose other than the provision of information. Should a conflict arise from the interpretation of
any other versions of this document written in languages other than Korean, the latest Korean version
shall prevail. However, this should not be understood as a guarantee of responsibility for the contents of
the Korean version. Nothing related to the IZE Blockchain contained in this document may be copied,
modified, disseminated, or distributed to any third party without the prior consent of the IZE Blockchain
Team.
The “forecast” included in this document has not been subject to verification. This information is related
to events expected in the future and described as “expected,” “forecast,” “plan,” and “expectation.” Such
“forecast” is affected by future events and changes, and inherently contains uncertainties. Due to such
variables, actual results may be substantially different from the stated “forecast” or its implication.
Moreover, the future outlook of this project is prepared by taking into account the current market
situation and development environment as of the date this document was prepared. IZE Blockchain
Team assumes no legal or moral liability for any loss resulting from the use of this document.
Should any terms or expressions in this disclaimer for a waiver of legal liability under this document
contradicts the current legislation, the term or expression will be ineffective until amended, while the
remainder of the disclaimer will remain in effect.

32

IZE fintech | White paper ver 1.0

9. References
https://www.blockchain.com/ja/learning-portal/bitcoin-faq
https://www.ibm.com/blockchain/use-cases/
https://www.coindeskjapan.com/26006/
https://ethereum.org/ja/developers/
https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs

33

