JGN
The World’s First DeFi
Commerce Infrastructure

LITEPAPER

Draft for community review.

Contents

Understanding DeFi & Project Overview

Page 3

First Case Study: jSKM DeFi Synthetic Partnership

Page 5

Partnership Technology Infrastructure

Page 8

Juggernaut Name Inspiration

Page 9

JGN Token Economics

Page 10

Conclusion

Page 11

2

Understanding DeFi & Project Overview
DeFi Infrastructure is the tools and services you need to participate in the most exciting financial shift of our time. The
next evolution of DeFi will go beyond pure finance and into real-life financial use-cases and assets and has the power to
fundamentally alter the bedrock of how we define value. We as a society need to re-evaluate beyond just the finance
and banking systems. If we are to have a true decentralized revolution, we must examine and see the burgeoning power of
DeFi applied to untapped, yet massive industries that are ripe for disruption.

DeFi Has Changed Everything
DeFi, short for decentralized finance—is the notion that crypto companies can recreate traditional financial instruments in
a decentralized architecture, outside of companies’ and governments’ control. Decentralized Finance—often called DeFi
or open finance—refers to the economic paradigm shift enabled by decentralized technologies, particularly blockchain
networks. From peer-to-peer payment systems to automated loans to USD-pegged stablecoins, DeFi has emerged as one
of the most active sectors in the blockchain space, with a range of use cases for developers, individuals, and institutions.
(Source: https://consensys.net/blockchain-use-cases/decentralized-finance/)
While DeFi stands for decentralized finance, the fact it's permission-less is equally as important, perhaps more so in its
current state. It means, essentially, that anyone can use these services, with the only barrier to entry being a little bit of
technical knowledge.
Say you're living in a country whose sovereign fiat currency has a fast-increasing rate of inflation. Instead of saving in that
currency and effectively seeing your capital dwindle, you could turn your money into a U.S. dollar-backed stablecoin and
get a decent return rate on top of that. Of course, if U.S. dollars aren't your currency of choice, you can use DeFi to invest
into other fiat currencies, and stablecoins that track the value of gold and other assets, etc. (Source:
https://mashable.com/article/defi-growing-fast/)
With fresh allegations of security and privacy of large Telco’s, the argument for decentralized applications has become
even more relevant. Now is the time to be a part of a piece of technology with the goal of becoming the next ‘AT&T’ that
cannot be stopped.
Introducing Juggernaut (JGN)
Imagine if you could think of a business idea and add customized DeFi into its components. This is the JGN mission. The
JGN ‘j’ token series will offer unique synthetic derivatives for specific business use cases. jSKM will be the first in the series.
More business use cases are being explored and will be announced very soon.
According to Coin Telegraph, the term “synthetic asset” refers to a mix of assets that have the same value as another
asset. Traditionally, synthetics combine various derivative products — options, futures or swaps — that simulate an
underlying asset — stocks, bonds, commodities, indexes, currencies or interest rates.

3

Understanding DeFi & Project Overview
For example, rather than purchasing a stock, an investment firm may purchase a call option and sell a put option on the
same stock. The use of synthetic assets here allows the firm to make use of multiple financial vehicles rather than a single
investment asset.
The high-end estimate for the value of all derivative contracts is upwards of $1.2 quadrillion — a number exponentially
bigger than global real estate ($217 trillion), the global debt ($215 trillion), global stock markets ($73 trillion) and the
world’s supply of gold ($7.7 trillion).
On one hand, derivatives can be used to help take price risk out of a variety of assets like commodities to debt. On the
other hand, derivatives can promote and exacerbate market inefficiencies, encouraging a zero-sum game among traders
rather than creating true market value. The use of derivative products allows investors to earn returns without a physical
settlement, arbitrage trade, transfer risk and hedge against price fluctuations.
So, why do we need customized synthetic derivatives (non-commodities)?
As previously described, most blockchain and cryptocurrency projects have failed because their business models are not
sustainable and only lead to pump and dumps. Only platform (exchange) tokens (and only for a select few) and DeFi have
worked as more sustainable business models due to staking and lock-in incentives.
The DeFi market is expanding every day. As of today, August 25th, 2020, there is 6.75 Billion (USD) locked in.
That means something.
JGN hopes to change the structure that we have come to know and expect from other projects and incentivize its users
with DeFi rewards for powering its unstoppable network.
Create your own synthetic DeFi assets with JGN’s unique custom framework. Customize usage profit directly among users
and holders, encourage greater liquidity, usage and adoption, and empower users with complete decentralized
governance.
Within 2 years of launch, nobody controls the project, only the users.
JGN is the first of its kind.
JGN is building the next generation of DeFi where traditional wall-street trading standards such as synthetic derivative
rewards that can happen on-chain linked to multiple global standards. We will be building the entire project on
blockchain.
The blockchain technology is fundamental to our project because of its immutability and transparency, which instills trust
in this new financial model. For instance, the governance token allows users to participate in market pool rewards and
making decisions (ex. increasing the spread between buy and sell price to attract more liquidity to the pool).

4

First Case Study: jSKM DeFi Synthetic Partnership
Phase I - First Case Study: Skrumble Network (SKM)
Together, we will help them to build The World’s First Unstoppable DeFi Commerce Infrastructure.
JGN is partnering with Skrumble Network to build the first DeFi powered unstopped communication network. However,
after this first stage, which might be 12 to 18 months, we prove out the methodology and will aim to partner with another
5 strategic partners to move to our business model expansion.
Similar to the internet and mobile ages before it, a sustainable business model took time to become clear. Almost all the
companies had to rely on rapid fundraising and cash burning cycles. A typical question now for most blockchain projects
is “how long is the runway” to see how long a project can survive. However, as we all know, building something innovative
is not enough. To make it sustainable, the token projects must develop their own sustainable business model.
Blockchain technology has been building for years. However, for the crypto token space, starting from Bitcoin, which was
popularized in 2009, it is has only been around for 11 years. We have already seen different waves and trends. However,
the primary proven sustainable business models so far might be exchanges (and platform tokens) and DeFi.
As the blockchain space evolves, decentralization will continue to be the essence of blockchain projects and their
communities. Therefore, JGN is solving the problems for most tokens projects, to help them build and run a sustainable
business model. More specifically, over the past few months of development for our first case study, which is also one of
our most important initial partnerships, we are going to work with SKM to embrace their vision – build a unstoppable
communication network plus our DeFi model. We are going to leverage 1% of our total JGN ecosystem tokens for this
partnership.
Phase II: Modular Expansion to Other Projects
For the second stage, we will invite another 5 projects, and allocate 2% for each project for our second year.
Subsequently, we will enable 10 projects, to allocate 1% per project for our year 3.
Year 1: 10% of the ecosystem tokens
Year 2: 10% of the ecosystem tokens
Year 3: 10% of the ecosystem tokens
Others – mining system

5

First Case Study: jSKM DeFi Synthetic Partnership
Phase I – SKM Partnership
The world’s first anonymous, unstoppable communication network that offers its own synthetic DeFi asset; JGN
contributes usage profit directly among its users and holders, encouraging greater liquidity, usage and adoption, enabling
users with unlimited benefits and complete decentralized governance.
Built on multiple tech providers, including the industry leading Skrumble Network (SKM) protocol, JGN leverages an
ecosystem run on physical VPN modulators to break through firewalls and deliver freedom of speech.
Global Demand for VPN is Rising.
VPN is More in-Demand than Ever. VPN is a secure solution that allows its users to send and receive data via the internet
while maintaining the privacy and confidentiality of their data, based on its encryption level.
Main advantages of VPN include:
Enhances security
Remote control
Share files
Online anonymity
Unblock websites and bypass filters
Change IP address
Better performance
Reduce costs
Example of the benefit of using VPN:
Person A lives in Canada and wants to watch American Netflix for better shows and movies.
Person A uses VPN, changes their IP address to somewhere in the USA.
Person A can now sign up for American Netflix and utilize a larger variety of streaming options.
The problem with current VPN solutions is that they are subject to being shut down or banned in certain countries. JGN
hopes to change that and incentivize its users with DeFi rewards for powering its unstoppable network.

JGN Mining Machines Power the Juggernaut VPN

6

First Case Study: jSKM DeFi Synthetic Partnership
Operation support system supports fine management of users
Analyze VPN bandwidth requirements based on user VPN usage and provide bandwidth configuration strategies
Manage VPN resources
Formulate an address conversion strategy and initiate VPN configuration address conversion to the terminal
according to situation

Physical, Unstoppable Mining Machine Infrastructure
Users must stake JGN for mining machines, while staking JGN for a designated time period is required to receive the DeFi
bonus. This is subject to change based on market dynamics.
How It Works
Miners are light nodes, and background services provide standard mining pool services, and the mining pool completes
the actual SKM deduction and reward distribution.
When the reward is distributed, the reward enters the corresponding address of the terminal
Users can access via mobile phone Wi-Fi to extract rewards
Users generate the decentralized VPN function and consume SKM tokens
The consumption rule of SKM tokens depends on the bandwidth and duration
VPN usage records are not stored, users can learn about VPN usage through SKM currency transaction records
The VPN switch is realized by hardware, and the user's mobile phone does not need to be configured
The terminal supports remote VPN address conversion

7

Partnership Technology Infrastructure

8

Juggernaut Name Inspiration
Where did the name Juggernaut come from?
Juggernaut is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel.
Juggernaut is known for being a strong, impenetrable force.
So, this an homage to the incredible Marvel character Juggernaut… because he’s unstoppable!

*All rights of Juggernaut images belong to Disney/Marvel, we just love the character.

9

JGN Token Economics
150,000,000 Total JGN Supply
Uniswap, Balancer & DeXs before listing: 1%, no lockup
Private Sale: 4%, 3 month lockup (linear vesting)
Team & Advisors: 5%, 24 months lockup (linear vesting)
Strategic Ecosystem Building & Partnerships: 10%, 18 months lockup
(linear vesting)
Foundation: 20%, 24 months (linear vesting)
Yield Farming & Collateral System: 60%, 36 months lockup

10

Conclusion
As the blockchain space evolves, decentralization will continue to be the essence of blockchain projects and their
communities. Therefore, JGN is solving the problems for most tokens projects, to help them build and run a sustainable
business model.
With ‘j’tokens, users would be able to accept, allocate and distribute profits, pay commissions, dividends and much more
using custom synthetics. These synthetics will also be able to be leveraged and used within the Ethereum ecosystem, for
such purposes as trading or any one of the many others available on the blockchain. Users can add liquidity and offer their
custom synths to the world to buy.
JGN is the first trust-less, unstoppable commerce network that offers custom synthetic DeFi assets to fit any business use
case. With JGN’s custom ‘j’ series synthetics, the potential is limitless. If you can dream it, you can do it.

11

JGN
The World’s First DeFi
Commerce Infrastructure
contact@jgndefi.com

LITEPAPER

Draft for community review.

