Kcash Digital Currency Wallet
Whitepaper

V4.0

Dec.2017

Catalogue
1 SUMMARY........................................................................................................................................... 2
2 BACKGROUND................................................................................................................................... 3
2.1 DEVELOPMENT STEP................................................................................................................. 3
2.2 USERS AND MARKET BOTTLENECKS.................................................................................... 4
2.3 MISSION AND VISION.............................................................................................................. 7
3 SERVICE INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................. 7
3.1 MULTI-BLOCKCHAIN ASSET MANAGEMENT..................................................................... 8
3.2 CRYPTO CURRENCY EXCHANGE AND TRANSACTION................................................. 10
3.3 KCASH AND KCHAIN PLATFORM........................................................................................11
3.4 AI (Artificial Intelligence) and IOT (Internet of Things)................................................. 15
3.5 CRYPTO CURRENCY BANK CARD........................................................................................ 15
4 TECHNICAL FEATURES AND INNOVATIONS....................................................................... 18
4.1 ZERO-KNOWLEDGE PROOF.................................................................................................. 18
4.2 SHA512-ZERO ALGORITHM ENCRYPTION TECHNIQUE............................................... 18
4.3 RING TOPOLOGY HUB TECHNOLOGY............................................................................... 18
4.4 NOBLOCK TECHNICAL ENGINE........................................................................................... 19
4.5 NO-LOCALCOIN EXCHANGE NETWORK........................................................................... 20
4.6 ZEROPAY NETWORK............................................................................................................... 21
5 PROJECT PLAN................................................................................................................................ 22
6 TEAM INTRODUCTION................................................................................................................. 24
6.1 CORE MEMBERS....................................................................................................................... 24
6.2 VC INVESTORS.......................................................................................................................... 25
7 DETAILED RULES AND REGULATIONS OF TOKENS........................................................... 25
7.1 RELEASE PLANNING OF TOKENS........................................................................................ 25
7.2 BUSINESS MODEL.................................................................................................................... 28

1

1. Summary
Kcash, the crypto currency wallet, facilitating the transaction and consumption
of digital currency in real world, aimed at resolving the inconvenience of
managing a variety of crypto currency, multifarious trading process and the
problem of insufficient application scenario. Kcash provides a powerful
infrastructure for cryptocurrency development which also promotes the
application and evolution of the cryptocurrency industry.

Kcash provides a security and swift, decentralized one-stop solution when
supporting various blockchain asset management. Users are able to store,
manage and exchange BTS, ETH and some other mainstream crypto currency
with integrated management, in which way can totally self-control personal
crypto currency and make the application and management of crypto currency
more flexible and agile.

Kcash

has a

high-performance

block

chain

(Kchain),

which

supports

Turing-complete smart contracts. The main chain of Kchain is a non-Turing
complete smart contract, which provides safe financial services for digital assets
and avoids the great security risks brought about by Turing-complete smart
contracts. Kchain also has a one-click side chain, side chain supports
Turing-complete smart contract, Kchain provides proprietary cross-chain and
cross-contract technology that links the main chain and the side chain. Both the
contractual assets on Kchain and the assets that is not on Kchain can be
transferred and exchanged through the cross-chain and cross-contract
technology of Kcash. Kchain is a block chain that was designed for issue,
exchange, value transfer of digital currency and other financial features, at the
same time it has the side chain function to configure and generate
Turing-complete by one-click, allows enterprises to concentrate on their
business logic, and don't have to worry about the security of the digital assets
and high cost and difficult research and development of block chain. Based on
Kchain, Kcash platform provides distributed computing power and distributed
data interface for digital assets on Kchain, which greatly enriches the
practicability of block chain.

2

Furthermore, Kcash has already cooperated with Visa, Master and other
international banks and card issuers to jointly issue crypto currency cards. Users
can apply for virtual or physical bank cards through Kcash online, you are able
to use the cards for online and offline consumption of goods and services and
have access to ATM withdrawal in the tens of millions of bank cards network
around the world as long as you recharge bank card with any digital currency,
in this way, the application scenarios of crypto currency has been greatly
extended. With the Kcash card, any digital currency has a bridge to the real
world, it is no longer an unusable asset.

With the sustainable development of blockchain technology and crypto
currency market, as one of the basic application, Kcash will provide significant
support for more new projects, to assistant the management as well as
circulation of blockchain assets, and make efforts to improve the ecological
efficiency and promoting crypto currency market prosperity.

2. Background
2.1 Development Step of digital currency
In 2008, Mr. Satoshi published the paper titled "bitcoins: A Peer to Peer
Electronic Cash System" in Bitcoin BBS, very firstly put forward the concept of
blockchain, and thus build the technology foundation of transaction
information encryption transmission and BTH network. Since the establishment
of the Bitcoin crypto currency platform in 2009, the Bitcoin system has been in
stable operation and automatically realized the process from distribution to
transaction circulation. At the same time, the blockchain, as the basic support
technology, has been gradually independently applied to more scenarios,
which has created a variety of crypto currencies based on this concept, such as
the Lite coin, Doge coin, Riple, etc.

3

In 2015, as the popularization of the concept of intelligence contract platform
derived from Ethereum open source project, it has realized the registration and
transfer of various types of assets and contract, facilitated the issuance · and
circulation of crypto currency, and greatly enriched the crypto currency type. In
particular, from the beginning of 2017, through the way of ICO, various
generations of tokens have emerged, bringing a new round of prosperity in the
crypto currency market. So far, there are nearly 1,000 crypto currency types in
Coinmarketcap, with a total value of more than $300 billion.

2.2 Users and Market Bottleneck
 Inconvenience of Crypto Currency Management
There is a strong demand for a perfect solution for the storage and
management of crypto currency, although crypto currency market is keep
growing rapidly, how to safely backup crypto currency wallet key or private
address key is one of the biggest barrier for users. The management of different
asset allocation and diversification has been more complicated with the
emergence of more and more crypto currency categories, as for the difficulties,
one the existing strategy is to install different decentralized wallet separately
for different type of crypto currency; or you can put it in a centralized wallet or
exchange and authorized the central agency to manage it. The former one
brings great inconvenience to users' operation and management, and the latter
has certain security risks, if the central agency is attacked or the bankrupt
coursed by poor operation. Thus how to balance security and convenience is
the core direction for all the service providers working on.

 High Thresholds for Trading and Exchange
The current way of transaction and exchange for crypto currency mainly
depends on exchanges, which is a high threshold for non-professional users
4

because of the strict real-name authentication in register process. The
transaction of digital currency requires users to learn the relevant processes
and operational steps, and there are usually limits to recharge and withdrawal.
The exchange between digital currencies requires the use of a digital currency
to convert to a legal currency and another for a digital currency.

Another way is realized in the off-market crypto currency trading platform
supplied by the facilitator like LocalBitcoins, users who have the demand to buy
and sell declare their respective quotations in the platform ， and they do
one-on-one transaction as long as the price is acceptable for each other, just
like shopping on the C2C online mart such as Ebay. But the downside is, the
crypto currency has to be hosted on a thirdparty platform in order to ensure
counterparties do not breach of contract, which increases the risk of theft or
loss of assets.

 Shortfall in performance and unreasonable design of
Block chain
The large fork of Bitcoin took place for the first time in August, 2018, and BCH
was produced, and in the following months, the bitcoin network continued to
be forked.

Because of the DAO event, hard fork of Ethereum network

happened, ETC and ETH was produced, what's the reason?

1. The performance of Bitcoin is seriously insufficient, and BCH made a hard
fork of Bitcoin in the name of the expansion of bitcoin.

2. With concentration of computing power, the system should be decentralized
is controlled by one side, and the blockchain network will be arbitrarily
manipulated, which violates the original intention of decentralization of
blockchain.

5

3. The smart contract of Ethereum is a great progress in block chain, but there
is a huge problem with this design concept, which is that the financial logic and
business logic are coupled together. It is not hard to imagine what a bad design
it would be to write Facebook's chat data in a bank database.

So when the storage capacity of Bitcoin network is not enough and there are
bugs in the smart contract of Ethereum, the entire financial system needs fork
to keep working. This is a disaster for a system that contains over hundreds of
billions of dollars.

 High development cost, high waste of computing power,
difficult to connect with the real world
With the development of block chain technology, enterprises in various
industries will use block chain technology in the future, but the high cost of
block chain development creates a barrier for most enterprises. With the mining
mechanism of POW, due to the fierce competition, the hardware required is
constantly updated, this proves to be extremely wasteful as the redundant
hardware is simply discarded as garbage. And POS mechanism cannot have the
decentralization advantage of POW. It is hard to know data of real social for
blockchain technology itself, such as air temperature, share price, weather and
so on. Some miners can provide some common data, but due to the complexity
of real world data types, miners cannot provide the data enterprises want, and if
enterprises provide these data, it can’t realize the characteristics of
decentralization, it is difficult to convince people, this will result in the difficulty
of connection between block and real world.

 Lack of Application Scenario
More extensive application scenario is required in order to support longer-term
development in crypto currency area. At present with the deepening of the

6

research in blockchain field, especially for the exploration of intelligent contract
direction, some product solutions have gradually combined with the real world
economy to seek win-win cooperation. But it still not has been adopted in
large-scale use till now, and there are only a handful of services for clients. Any
of the crypto currency including the Bitcoin, Ethernet, and any other token
issued on the intelligent contract platform can increase the value of itself, only
by way of interacting more with the physical world, which can further promote
crypto currency market prosperity and efficiency in the physical world.

2.3 Mission and Vision
Kcash is devoted to provide the public a safe, swift and efficient crypto asset
management tool. We aim to enable everybody anywhere at any time
conveniently use their digital assets, provide rich blockchain technology and
cryptocurrency application scenarios as well as promote our services to
business progression and social development by bridging the gap between
cryptocurrency and the real world.

3. Service Introduction
Kcash is the future Alipay, and the main service carrier is composed of the
Kchain blockchain, wallet APP and digital currency debit card. Through
products and services of Kcash platform, it provides enterprises with services to
deploy high-efficiency solution of block chain at express speed. And Kcash is
basically one of the cryptocurrency wallet, which realized the transaction and
consumption of crypto currency in real world, and its main service carrier is the
wallet APP and the crypto currency card. Kcash provides a one-stop
management of Bitcoins, Ethernet and any other token, making the transaction
and exchange more security and swift, binding digital assets to the bank cards,

7

which realize the seamless connection between digital currency and the
physical world. And Kcash enables your cryptocurrency to be used in various
transaction

consumption

scenarios

and

activates

your

digital

assets

authentically.

In accordance with the existing laws and policies of all countries, Kcash is based
on the global market, cooperating with payment agencies and issuers to
provide public users with the legal and secure products and services.

3.1 Multi-Blockchain Asset Management
Kcash

wallet

APP

provides

users

with

the

unified

management

of

multiblockchain assets, which has the following characteristics:

 One-Stop Management Service
A variety of digital currency can be unified managed and stored by Kcash wallet
APP, including the Bitcoins, ETH and some other mainstream assets, as well as
the standard protocols of intelligent contract platform like Ethereum and
Achain, which brought a rapid increase in the generation of tokens based on
different platforms. On one hand, it reduce the user management burden, on
the other hand, it also provides the wallet service support for new ICO projects,
so that the project team can be more focused on the core services.

 Decentralized Service
Kcash adheres to the core principles of blockchain, to provide users with
decentralized crypto currency storage solution, the wallet keys and all the
private key information of various crypto currency stored into the user's local

8

system. Besides that, Kcash provides a convenient key backup solution - users
only need to backup for once, write down 12 words, and save them to a safe
place. Even if there is an increase in the number of crypto currencies in future,
all categories of digital currency assets can be restored with the backup of the
above 12 words.

 Multiple Security Assurance
Kcash make users completely control their wallet keys, and also provide
multiple

signature

technology

guarantee

and

two-step-authorization

verification for different scale of digital asset management, users can choose
any of the verification method like phone code, fingerprints or other biometrics
when doing transfer trading, thus to comprehensively guarantee the security of
crypto currency assets.

 Multilingual support
The Kcash wallet APP is to support multiple languages in mainstream crypto
currency markets such as Chinese, English, Japanese and Korean, clearing the
language barrier for a world-class wallet application.

3.2 Crypto Currency Exchange and Transaction
The Kcash wallet APP supplies simple, swift and safe exchange and trading
service for users by the original NO-LOCALCOIN exchange network and
connecting with the exchanges’API.

9

 Risk-Free Currency Exchange
Kcash develops the NO-LOCALCOIN exchange network based on the Kchain
platform, realizing the risk-free digital currency exchange service through
intelligent contracts and cross-chain gateway technology (For details, see
description of technical feature). Users exchange the crypto currencies via
Kcash, and the whole trading process will be monitored and performed by the
intelligent contract mechanism created by the platform or the third-party
agency, which avoids the risk of default by the parties involved in the
transaction process. Compared with the centralized platform service, the
intelligent contract avoids the loss incurred from subjective default risk or
objective attack of the platform. Even for the tokens issued by the new ICO
project, it can do risk-free exchange through the wallet service as long as Kcash
wallet is supported. On Kchain, there is standardized exchange service of all
kinds of digital assets, and various digital assets are freely convertible.

 Simple and Swift Transaction
There will be a certain entry threshold and learning cost to buy and sell digital
currency through exchanges. Kcash provides users with the optimal market
prices and simple operation experience by connecting with the exchanges’ API,
to be specific, Kcash simply shows the users buying and selling rate by
optimizing selection mechanism, and users only need to input the number to
complete the transaction like on ecommerce platform.

 Simple Deposit Tool
Kcash provides users with credit card consumption channels and iPOS by
cooperating with payment service providers. Users only need to initiate a
purchase transaction in the Kcash wallet APP, connect iPOS via the Kcash APP,
swipe VISA card to complete the trading of buying $100 Bitcoin. Kcash backend
system transfers $100 to the exchanges’ account through the exchanges’ API,
10

and then transfers it back to the user's wallet after the exchanges completes its
purchase of Bitcoin. The whole process is as simple as the offline credit-card
consumption.

3.3 Kcash and Kchain platform
Main chain of Kchain is non-turing-complete smart contract, it is designed to
provide digital assets with transfer, exchange, trade and other professional
financial services. Similar to block chain network of Bitcoin, Kchain has
generated a lot of financial smart contracts in advance. On the main chain, it
can't release smart contracts optionally, in this way the security problem of
digital assets is completely solved. The main chain of Kchain focuses on the
financial functions of digital assets rather than complex business logic. The
advantages of this design are security and high performance without redundant
data.

In the design concept of Kchain, digital assets and business logic are separated.
In the main chain of Kchain, only digital assets themselves can complete the

11

financial functions of digital assets. If the digital assets require some
decentralized data or mining services, in the digital assets on main chain of
Kchain, it can generate a corresponding performance function that is
configured in the contract. At the same time on Kcash platform, it can generate
algorithm to provide the data or mine, and deposite commensurate Kcash
tokens, and release them on Kcash platform together. In this way, there will be a
lot of decentralized users of Kcash APP (mobile phone or PC) and they can run
this data program or mining program in order to provide data or mining service
for the digital assets to earn Kcash and the corresponding digital assets. For
example, the digital asset of a contract is to provide insurance service for crops,
when the rainfall index is under a certain numerical value for several months,
certain digital assets will be returned to insurance user. In this case, smart
contract need to know the daily rainfall index, if the index is provided by the
official, there will be risk of official fraud and hacking, this means the index data
can't be trusted. But the official can configure corresponding performance
function in the smart contract, at the same time publish acquisition algorithm
on Kcash platform and deposit a certain amount of Kcash tokens. Users of
Kcash on platform find that running the program can earn Kcash tokens and the
digital assets of the contract, they will provide the digital asset with
decentralized data services. At the same time, the program can also provide
users with the function of the mining. As long as applications released by
official have this function, users can also get some of the digital assets. When it
runs for some time, users find even if the official does not provide additional
Kcash tokens, because of the data and mining services, they can also obtain the
official digital assets, and revenue is good, they will continue to provide service
for the asset. For the official, they can obtain decentralized computing power,
data and mining service by paying some cost with ease. For users, they can
obtain data and good income of mining. Of course, the users need to deposit
some Kcash as margin to promise not to provide false data. If the system
detects that the user is cheating, it will withdraw income of user and confiscate
the deposit of user. This form of mining is called contractual mining. As we all
know, when some new digital asset projects are released, the depth of the
buying and selling is often not enough. So when the user needs to consume
digital assets equivalent to $1, he has to spend extra digital assets. But with our
contractual mining of Kcash platform, item side can provide mining process, a
exchange service between the project’s digital assets and Kcash tokens for the

12

mining users. So that when users use digital assets of the project, the exchange
service will change the digital assets to deep enough Kcash tokens to consume,
and at the same time users can get Kcash tokens from item side and
corresponding mining fee of digital assets. With this kind of service, the new
project can also complete the business logic of consumption in the real world.

Of course, many projects are not just simple data and mining services, they
need their own blockchain to complete their business logic. Creating a project
on Kchain is also very simple. It only need to configure corresponding data in
their contract of digital assets, such as pattern of blockchain, the size of block,
the consensus mechanism, the mining mode, etc. And it need to deposit a
certain amount of Kcash tokens, so miners of Kchain will find this requirement,
if miners feel that income is good, they will change some computing power to
generate the side chain in order to support block chain of the project to earn
Kcash tokens and the corresponding digital assets. If it is found that supporting
the digital asset is not cost-effective, they will throw out this digital asset. In this
logic, the miners can always automatically configure their own computing
power to get good benefits. At the same time when computing power
competition of a digital assets is too fierce or mine owner found his mill has
been eliminated by computing power of the digital assets, they will
automatically transfer their computing power to some less competitive digital
assets, this makes the mill can be reused rather than being eliminated as
garbage. For the project party, it can be simple enough to deposit Kcash tokens
to obtain decentralized side chains and corresponding computing power
support. When there is a data failure on a side chain or a side chain is
completely dead, that also won't affect the operation of the main chain, and
side chain has its own independent computing power, and serve its own
business logic compeletely, it doesn't have to worry about the problem of
network congestion. In this way, digital assets and business logic are separated,
it solves performance problems and makes digital assets safer. For example, if
there is a major accident in the main chain, but there is detailed data on the side
chain, it can restore the user's digital assets. If there is a major accident in the
side chain, it’s just an accident of business data, it does not affect the user's
digital assets at all, and project side can backup data of side chain to restore the
side chain. On Kchain, generating and running block chain is so simple,
high-efficient and safe. The most important thing is that simple configuration

13

can gain a strong decentralized computing power. Under this design framework,
if one day, the performance of the side chain is insufficient, it is very simple to
ramp up capacity for block chain. All the miners are willing to upgrade. It is just
business logic on the side chain, does not involve digital assets themselves.
Maintaining the old chain is not similar to that BTC forked out to BCH to get a
double income of digital asset, because digital assets will not fork out on the
main chain.

If the business logic of the project uses the current blockchain technology but
can not meets performance requirements, how to deal with it? It's very simple,
also on Kcash platform, it can provide contract which is connected to the main
chain and centralized service program. After depositing Kcash tokens and
releasing on Kcash platform, there will be users of Kcash who provide
computing power to provide connection service.

In the whole design framework, the project party's digital assets are completely
decentralized and have a very trustworthy credibility. Kchain and architecture
design of Kcash platform architecture design, thoroughly solved the problem of
the performance of block chain, the problem of high cost and difficulty of block
chain development, the problem of computing power waste, all kinds of
problems about the combination of centralized and decentralized business
logic and the problem about connection between block chain and the real
world, etc.

3.4 AI (Artificial Intelligence) and IOT (Internet of
Things)
The world of artificial intelligence and the Internet of things is coming, but it
needs the blockchain and the digital assets on the blockchain. Without digital
assets, we cannot freely complete various services, the transmission and
exchange of values. Block chain is the best carrier of artificial intelligence and

14

Internet of things. Imagine a scenario, one day in the future, you're sitting in a
self-driving car, your mobile phone needs charge and WIFI service, you need to
pay the cost of the car, you need to pay for snacks in the car, you also need to
see a paid program. Each service has its own service provider, undoubtedly, it is
the best way to receive payment if they have their own digital assets. Your cell
phone

can

automatically

connect

with

these

devices

by

near

field

communication (or bluetooth, etc.). You only need to tell your phone your need,
it will automatically pay for all services, at the same time, it will automatically
pay for service of charge and WIFI. There is a problem, so many services,
whether digital assets of service provider is on Kchain or not, network of Kchain
will automatically complete the exchange of various digital assets by its unique
cross-chain and cross-contract technology. Kchain will be the infrastructure to
communicate all this.

3.5 Crypto Currency Bank Card
In order to connect digital currency and the physical world, Kcash cooperated
with the card issuers to open the function of activating banking debit card in
the wallet APP, and users can apply for a physical card or virtual card and
recharge it with crypto currency to do transaction and consumption in physical
world. At present, Kcash team has established a cooperative relationship with
the card issuers, and already had the banking card supporting the crypto
currency recharge, demo as follow.

15

The crypto currency banking card has following characteristics

 Activate Card in Topspeed
There are three steps for users to activate banking card, firstly, online apply in
the Kcash wallet APP, secondly, select the card type, physical or virtual, and
thirdly, fill in the basic KYC information. The virtual card will be effective
immediately as soon as it activated successfully; while physical cards require a
certain card making cycle, which usually be delivered to the users in 2-3 weeks.

 Real-Time Swap
According to the current market exchange rate, users can convert any of the
crypto currency by kcash wallet into the corresponding legal currency, to carry
out the online and offline transaction by recharging the legal currency into the
bank card. In this way, users always hold crypto currency assets in their own
wallet accounts, which will be converted in real time if they need to do
transactions.

16

 Extensive Application Scenarios
Banking card issued by Kcash can carry out online and offline trading,
comparing with traditional channels, it can provide lower rate and higher
efficiency no matter in domestic e-commerce online payment, or the overseas
transfer remittance. Meanwhile, Kcash banking card also support tens of
millions of branch network for consumption in the whole world, and withdraw
local currency from any ATM in more than 200 countries and regions, which
provides a great convenience to overseas study, travel and business activities,
etc.

 Typical Application Scenarios
Overseas e-commerce shopping - when the user need to use foreign currency
to pay the order on overseas e-commerce platform, they just need to bind the
real or virtual card to the corresponding e-commerce platform account, and
then recharge the banking card with crypto currency to complete the payment.

Overseas travel consumption - when users traveling abroad, they can recharge
the physical banking card with crypto currency through Kcash, which realizes
the overseas consumption and foreign currency withdrawal, thereby avoids the
trouble of swap.

Cross-border remittances – when you have the demand of overseas transfer
remittance for the reason of study abroad, overseas work or business trip, you
can do the crypto currency transfer via Kcash wallet to consume or withdraw
money in real time with a better transfer speed and rate.

17

4 Technical Feature and Innovation
4.1 Zero-Knowledge Proof
Zero-Knowledge Proof refers to that certifier can convince the verifier that one
theory is correct without providing any useful information to the verifier. And
Kcash

has

achieved

cross-chain

and

cross-contract

technology

with

Zero-Knowledge Proof.

4.2 SHA512-ZERO Algorithm Encryption Technique
SHA is a series of cryptographic hash functions designed by the national
security agency (NSA) and published by the national institute of standards and
technology

(NIST).

Through

the

customization

of

SHA512

encryption

technology, the SHA512-ZERO encryption technology which is exclusively used
by Kcash is developed to guarantee the data security of the Kcash network.

4.3 Ring Topology Hub Technology

The Ring Topology Hub technology of Kcash connects multiple links to a Hub,
making it easy for a digital asset terminal to achieve a single key cross-chain
and transformation. The advantage of the ring is that the topological structure
has a much smaller resource consumption than the star type and tree type. It
may not be obvious if the node is small and the distance is close, but the
advantage of the loop network will be quite obvious when the long distance
and multiple nodes appears.

18

4.4 NOBLOCK Technical Engine
Kcash's original NOBLOCK technology engine enables light wallet to be actually
lightest. But there is a big problem for light wallet to receive the BLOCK
information from blockchain network till now. The light wallet network requests
takes up a large amount of network bandwidth due to the blockchain network
implement the data security through data synchronization redundancy.

Our design idea is to let the blockchain browser to be our BLOCK data source,
and it no longer synchronize BLOCK data. The problem using the data source
from the blockchain browser is how to guarantee the data source's correctness.
We adopted the architecture of the Block Chain

Browser Pool (BCBP). And the schematic demo shows below:

19

4.5 NO-LOCALCOIN Exchange Network
The NO-LOCALCOIN exchange network is based on the Achain platform
through customizing intelligent contract and cross-chain gateway technology
to realize the risk-free crypto currency exchange. Kcash platform or the users
with Kcash tokens can create intelligent contracts to provide guarantee services,
evade default by all parties according to contract mechanism, avoid the
arbitration bias of centralized custodians, and make sure there is no risk of loss
for participating. After the contract founder facilitates the exchange transaction,
the corresponding proportion of the guarantee returns. The whole process like
below.

20

4.6 ZeroPay Network
The decentralization technology of blockchain resulted in low payment
efficiency. We implement Kcash lightning network by the following technical
skills, basically speaking, it is based on the existing blockchain network to build
Kcash VPN subnet, realize the second-level confirmation for funds transfer, and
ensure real-time credit card consumption is not affected by blockchain.

Customized mobile client, all the Kcash users’ blockchain transfer records have
the SHA512 - ZERO encryption mark

21

We developed enterprise blockchain nodes, which is able to detect Kcash users
blockchain activities at any time, verify the validity, do flow analysis, etc. The
enterprise node has 7X24-hour continuous detection, the balance change of
analysis of users will be provided to the server, and reported to the Kcash server
as well.

Kcash server receives the enterprise blockchain node analysis, when users
initiated the charge request, it can real-time verify whether the user has had a
real blockchain transfer request, to prevent malicious double spend.

Legend below, the blue ones is our global deployed sniffer node:

5.Project plan
Process

Time

Phase 1

Q4, 2017

Milestone

Functional service

Wallet

Support mainstream tokens management

22

APP1.0

(BTC, ETH, LTC, ACT and other tokens
issued by Ethereum and other platforms)

KCASH token
comes into
1. KCASH token comes into the exchanges
Q1,
Phase 2

2018-Q2,
2018

the
exchanges,

2. Issue digital currency bank card to
connect digital currency with bank card,

issue digital
support online and offline transaction
currency
bank card

1. Kchain main net goes live, supports
Token

smart contract, side chain project and

trading goes

wallet computing power platform

Q3,
Phase 3

2018-Q4,
live on
2018

2. Achieve risk-free secured transactions

Kchain

based on Kchain platform smart contract

DAPP
1. Enrich DAPP platform, create application
Q1,

platform
ecology

Phase 4

2018-Q2,

connects

2019

with

2. Connect with exchange, support

exchanges

convenient transaction of digital currency

23

within APP

1.Optimize the service of currency
conversion and transaction, and improve
the use procedure of digital currency bank
card
Q3, 2019

Continuous

and later

iterations

Phase 5

2. Improve the technology of main chain
and side chain of Kchain.

3. Explore the cooperation with banking
and financial institutions, provide
diversified innovative services for users.

6. Team Introduction
6.1 Core Members
•

Xuejiao Zhu

Founder of Kcash, graduated from Tsinghua University

with 8 years of experience in technical research and development, Full
stack engineer and serial entrepreneur. Join create YardWallet. He
developed bitcoin payment gateway, bitcoin wallet and copyright
authentication system independently.

24

•

Kun Liu

Co-Founder of Kcash, graduated from Peking University

Youdao product manager, YardWallet co-founder and Qiandai product
director. He participated in the creation of multiple products such as
bitcoin wallet, POS receipt and mobile payments.

•

Shui Yu

Co-Founder of Kcash, graduated from Nankai University with

7 years of experience in management consulting. Former business
partner of Hejun Consulting and founding partner of Huiyuan Consulting.
He provided strategic planning, business model design and talent
training for several A shares listed companies.

6.2

VC Investors

Nearly 30 company executives in payments industry support strongly Kcash, as
angel investors, they provide Kcash with project funds, industry resources,
business development proposal and other many-faceted support and help.
They are the solid supporter and the effective assistance for long-term and
rapid development of Kcash. Detailed list of angel investors will be posted on
official website.

7. Detailed rules and regulations of
tokens
7.1 Release planning of tokens

25

The name of token issued by Kcash is KCASH, total supply is 1 billion, the
specific distribution plan is as follows:

Percentage of

Distribution

total supply

scheme

Details

Used for the subsequent development of Kcash
project, talent recruitment, market promotion,
20%

Presale

etc.
The use of this part of the fund needs to be
publicized at fixed period.
On the platform of Kcash, users can provide the
support of computing power and data, mining
and other services for Kcash and Kchain to

30%

Mining

obtain rewards. This part makes up 30% of total
supply. It will be accomplished in eight years,
and there will never additional issue. It will be
released 5% annually in the first four years and
than 2.5% annually in the last four years.

5%

Incentive for
users

As rewards, used to encourage users to
download, promote, deposit, consume, transfer
and so on.
As development funds of Kcash, used for the

10%

Development

subsequent development of project, business

fund

ecological construction and development of
international business.
26

The use of this part of the fund requires
resolution of foundation and to be publicized in
advance
In order to repay the founding team's
exploration and development in digital currency
area, and the effort for the maintenance of
Kcash product technology and operation
15%

Founding Team

development, give out tokens in return. This
part of token will be locked by smart contract
after issuance of token, it will be unlocked one
month later, and 3% of this part will be unlocked
per month.
Early investors made contributions to the
development of Kcash in terms of financial
resources, resources, strategic planning and
personnel assistance, so give out tokens in

5%

Early Investors

return.
This part of token will be locked after issuance of
token, it will be unlocked one month later, and
20% of this part will be unlocked per month.
Complete it 5 months later.

15%

Institutional
Investors

It is used to reward enterprise investors and
establish business cooperation with cooperative
enterprises. This part of token will be locked

27

after issuance of token, it will be unlocked one
month later, and 2% of this part will be unlocked
per month. Complete it 50 months later.

7.2 Business model
 Gas of digital asset consumption
On Kchain blockchain, the creation and transfer of any digital assets require the
consumption of Kcash token as Gas miner's fees.

 Cost of computing power
On Kchain blockchain, if the project party needs to generate a side chain quickly,
they needs to deposit a certain amount of Kcash tokens into the contract that
configures assets of contract in order to attract miners. Similarly, if the project
party requires users to provide decentralized computing power, data support
and mining services, the project party also needs to pay a certain amount of
Kcash token in advance.

 Exchange fee
To complete the exchange between different digital assets, users need to pay a
transaction fee in order to utilize the decentralized exchange service.

28

 The use of service charge
Users consume in the store through bank card bound by Kcash, VISA or Master
or other service providers will charge corresponding transaction fee from
merchants (this fee will be affected by consumption area, the types of
consumption, consumption amount and other factors). And then according to a
certain proportion, it will assigned to Kcash as shared revenue. We estimate that
shared revenue of average transaction fees is about 1% (the actual situation
may change). Let's assume that Kcash has $1 million users, average
consumption is $100 per user per month, total transaction amount of one year
is $1.2 billion, shared revenue of transaction fee is $12 million.

Kcash team will use more than 35% of shared revenue of transaction fee every
month to buy Kcash tokens, repurchase tokens and deposit them into
development fund address. They are used for the subsequent development of
project and ecological construction of product.

 Deduction of fee
When a user makes a digital currency exchange transaction through Kcash, he
or she can use the current market value of Kcash to deduct the transaction fee.
Later, the Kcash team will collaborate with the exchange to allow Kcash to
partially offset the digital currency transaction fees as far as possible.

 Incentive for users
Users who hold Kcash tokens, can be the creator of contract in Kcash’s currency
exchange services. They can obtain income of fee by prompting the exchange

29

transaction (see description of NO-LOCALCOIN exchange network for specific
mechanisms).

Users who bind their bank cards through Kcash wallet will receive 10% of the
transaction fee as “ cash back ” for each purchase. Kcash will automatically
distribute to users' wallets in the form of Kcash tokens. This not only gives users
a rebate but also expands the user group of Kcash tokens.

Contact information:
Official website: https://www.kcash.com

Official Wechat account: kcash01

Official QQ account: 1546285452

Official QQ group: 661265047

Twitter：https://twitter.com/Kcashofficial

Facebook：https://www.facebook.com/KcashOfficial

Telegram：https://t.me/KcashOfficial_EN

30

