Position Paper v 2.1

Copyright © Klaytn. All rights reserved.

Table of Contents
About Klaytn Position Paper

4

What’s a Klaytn Position Paper?
What’s the Problem Klaytn is Trying to Solve?
What Changed Since the Last Update?

4
4
5

1. Introduction

7

From Idealism to Pragmatism: Blockchain’s Inflection Point
Businesses Will Drive Blockchain Mass Adoption
Why Should Businesses Care About Blockchain?

7
7
8

2. Klaytn’s Vision of Mass Adoption

10

Why is Mass Adoption an Important Goal?
Challenges to Blockchain Mass Adoption
How Will Klaytn Achieve Blockchain Mass Adoption?

10
10
11

3. Klaytn Design

13

Overview of Klaytn Architecture

13

The Trust Model in Klaytn

13

Klaytn Network Structure

14

Core Cell Network (CCN)

14

Endpoint Node Network (ENN)

14

Service Chain Network (SCN)

15

Klaytn Main Chain Network

15

Core Cell (CC)

15

Consensus Node Network (CNN)

15

Proxy Node Network (PNN)

16

Endpoint Node Network (ENN)

16

Bootnode

16

Block Generation and Propagation

16

Block Generation Cycle

16

Proposer and Committee Selection

16

Block Proposal and Validation

16

Block Propagation

17

Public Disclosure and Open Validation

17

Separated Propagation Channels for Blocks and Transactions

17

Block rewards

17

Klaytn Accounts

17

Overview of Account, State, and Address

17

Decoupling the Address from the Key

18

Multi-Key Pairs and Role-Based Keys

18

Human-Readable Address (HRA)

18

Klaytn Wallet Key: A Unique Klaytn Key Format

19

Klaytn Account Types

19

Klaytn Transactions

19

Transactions Overview

19

Signature Validation of Transactions

20

Fee Delegation

20

SenderTxHash

20

Computation

21

1

Klaytn Smart Contracts

21

Affordable Smart Contract Execution Cost

21

Smart Contract Language

22

Klaytn Token Standards

22

Creating Smart Contracts

23

Executing Smart Contracts

23

Disabling Smart Contracts

23

Upgrading Smart Contracts

23

Klaytn Tokens and Transaction Fees

24

Klaytn Virtual Machine (KLVM)

24

How KLVM Differs From EVM

25

Storage

25

Block Archiving

25

Service Chain

26

Service Chain Network (SCN)

26

Service Chain Features

27

Enterprise Proxy

27

Blockchain Enabler

28

Event Handler

28

Transaction Manager

28

Chain Router

28

Legacy System Integrator

29

Request Transcoder

29

Request Gateway

29

4. Klaytn Token Economy

30

Token Economy Overview

30

Incentive Structure

30

Klaytn Governance Council Reward

30

Klaytn Governance Council Reward Mechanism

30

Penalty for Misbehaving Council Members

31

Proof of Contribution

31

Service Providers

31

End-Users

32

Proof of Contribution Reward Mechanism

32

Klaytn Improvement Reserve

32

5. Klaytn Governance

33

Overview

33

Klaytn Governance Council : Co-governed by Klaytn Contributors

33

Bootstrapping

33

Governance Topics
Governance Process

33
33

General Governance Process

33

Klaytn Improvement Reserve Governance Process

34

Duties and Rights of the Governing Body

35

Duties

35

Voting Rights

35

6. Roadmap

36

1) 2019: Buildup Infrastructures

36

Focusing on Base Components (Klaytn & Toolkits)

36

Discovering Killer BApps

36

2) 2020: Buildup User Base

36

2

Data-Driven Upgrade for Klaytn Scalability & Compatibility

36

Expanding User Base via BApps

36

3) 2021: Klaytn World

36

Klaytn to reach mainstream with performance, security, and productivity on-par with the traditional internet

36

Risks and Disclaimers

38

No Viewing in a Restricted Territory
Information Only

38
38

No Offer

39

No Advice

39

No Agreement
Regulatory Risks

39
39

Other Disclaimers

39

3

About Klaytn Position Paper
What’s a Klaytn Position Paper?
This document is an update to the Klaytn Position Paper first published in September 2018 and
updated in March 2019. The Position Paper defines the problems Klaytn aims to solve, explaining
their nature and suggesting potential solutions that may be implemented to tackle those problems. As
such, Klaytn’s Position Paper differs from a white paper in its perspective; a white paper typically
defines a problem and declaratively describes how it will be solved, along with by when a technical
solution will be delivered. In contrast, Klaytn’s Position Paper depicts a vision of the world where the
hurdles we face today have been remedied, as to establish a shared sense of direction for Klaytn’s
partners, platform participants, and community members.

What’s the Problem Klaytn is Trying to Solve?
From its onset in early 2018, Klaytn has identified blockchain mass adoption as its foremost goal.
Ever since, the project has built a public blockchain network and a business-friendly development
platform around it to help entrepreneurs and enterprises in various sectors build highly usable
blockchain applications for a wide range of end-users regardless of their level of crypto-literacy. Klaytn
believes that the full innovative potential of blockchain will be unlocked through the new breed of
applications - services and products - that the technology unlocks, and that those new applications will
deliver unprecedented utility and benefits to its users. In Klaytn’s view, this is how blockchain mass
adoption will run its course - organic, user-centric, and natural as the next due step in the course of
evolution.
To realize its vision, Klaytn will provide a comprehensive suite of blockchain application development
environment, starting with a public blockchain network, development platform, and developer
supporting tools. Klaytn development platform aims to imbue businesses with the capability to create
applications that integrate key qualities conferred by the underlying Klaytn public network, including
transparency, security, and censorship-resistance. At the same time, the said platform supports
enterprise-ready level scalability and performance in order to enable reliable business operations by
massive international enterprises.
To further strengthen its value proposition for businesses, Klaytn is built on carefully designed token
economy, governance systems, and incentive programs to facilitate collaboration among diverse
groups of contributors on its platform. Klaytn ecosystem participants include not only direct business
partners, infrastructure co-operators, and governance participants, but also organic stakeholders such
as developer communities, user circles, and other interest groups. Contributions from various groups
are mediated and directed towards growing the ecosystem; Klaytn’s governance will support key
growth activities such as maintaining its public network, advancing software development, growing a
mesh of connected child networks, aligning interests among participants, and ensuring active
participation in the governance decision making procedures.
Paving the path towards a widespread adoption of blockchain technology by businesses and the
wider body of end-users is an arduous task, riddled with challenges on many fronts. Nevertheless,
Klaytn believes its vision of incubating the next breed of blockchain-powered services and products is
the path to accelerate the arrival of the next phase of digital business evolution. To that end, Klaytn
will continue to address numerous challenges that businesses face in their blockchain adoption

4

efforts, and remove friction end-users come across in their customer journey on blockchain-powered
products.

What Changed Since the Last Update?
Klaytn Position Paper is continuously revised to deliver concise and accurate information on the
nature and goals of the Klaytn project and its ongoing progress. The paper covers the project
background and the principles behind the designs of Klaytn’s blockchain networks, development
platform, and its tools. It also explains how Klaytn aims to build its ecosystem and facilitate various
collaborations among participants as to achieve their support, which is a key component in realizing
blockchain mass adoption.
In Position Paper v2.0, an overview of Klaytn platform’s technology stack, including a high-level
architecture and visualization of its networks, has been added to help readers gain a better
at-a-glance understanding of Klaytn software. Tech-savvy readers looking for detailed information are
encouraged to visit the technical resources at Klaytn Docs (​https://docs.klaytn.com/​) for a more
through exploration under the hood.
As blockchain technology continues to advance at an incredible pace, the requirements from
stakeholders interested in leveraging the technology are becoming much more refined and
demanding. In particular, the need for improved security has grown stronger than ever from enterprise
stakeholders concerned about potential breaches. In response, Klaytn has further reinforced the
robustness of its blockchain network’s security by carefully re-aligning the incentive structure to
transition away from its previous two-layer network design where individual nodes have separate roles
and responsibilities rooted on different incentive sources. That is, in v1.0, block producing
responsibilities were assigned to Consensus Nodes while auditing responsibilities were solely given to
Ranger Nodes. In the new v2.0 design, node roles are merged under a single incentive system so that
all nodes collectively participate in data auditing across Klaytn under a singly-aligned incentive
system. In essence, all nodes contribute to validating block production results. At the same time,
nodes are re-categorized by the infrastructure function they contribute: Consensus Nodes continue to
focus on rapid block production and propagation by leveraging their high caliber hardware and
network resources, while other nodes form additional network layers encapsulating the core
Consensus Node network to ensure responsive transaction request intake, faster transaction data
propagation across the entire network, and improved protection against external attacks.
The change enables Klaytn to support a long-term transition plan where the number of nodes
participating in block production will gradually increase as technical requirements for block production
ease down through infrastructure technology advancements. This will lead to an expanded pool of
block producer nodes which will in turn reinforce the network’s security while preserving performance.
As to accurately describe the adjusted roles, we have renamed the previous Ranger Nodes to
Endpoint Nodes to emphasize the node’s functional contribution rather than their method of
incentivization.
Service Chain, the scalability solution in Klaytn, has also been extended in its feature and has been
repackaged to make it easier for businesses to adopt. In v1.0, Service Chain was proposed as a
logical segregation of multiple blockchain instances running on a single chain, with the purpose of
solving resource limitation issues. Region Chain was presented as a physical expansion solution to
address similar limitations. In v2.0, Service Chain has been repositioned as a consolidated scalability
solution incorporating the features and benefits of both previous Service Chain iteration and Region
Chain. The newly proposed Service Chain offers flexible node configuration capability that empowers
enterprises to adopt a tailored Klaytn blockchain solution package that fits their unique business

5

needs and infrastructure resource availabilities. Configurable policies include data privacy and access
permission policies, security settings, transaction fee models, and desired performance levels.
In addition to the above features, Service Chain enables businesses to establish trusted connection
with the public Klaytn mainnet through which immutable data validation proofs may be created, which
ensures the integrity of the data on individual Service Chains by leveraging the trusted security of the
mainnet. As an additional connectivity feature, Service Chain provides a network bridge function that
connects individual Service Chains with the public mainnet to facilitate transfer of tokenized digital
assets between blockchain networks.
Note that, as of v2.1, Service Chain is still an experimental solution that requires further testing using
extensive operational data to achieve fully stabilized performance. Users are advised to exercise
caution and individual best judgment when evaluating potential risks of using Service Chain. Klaytn is
committed to fully developing Service Chain to meet the needs of a wider range of stakeholders, and
welcomes contribution from partners and ecosystem participants who share the goal of improving the
solution.

6

1. Introduction
From Idealism to Pragmatism: Blockchain’s Inflection Point
If you have been interested in blockchain for some time, you might recall the time of early 2018 when
quite a few number of communities were built around projects, clamouring with heated, resounding
calls for action. Those calls urged people to look up and realize the unfairness lodged deep within the
designs of contemporary economic systems, many of which involving central entities such as
institutions or large businesses, with varying degrees of concentrated power. Those calls went on to
urge people to take action, to leave behind the conformant systems and to create a new economy
from scratch. Revamped designs for the new world would to be made possible by blockchain - the
game changing technology which doubled as new grounds on which a new economic paradigm would
be built to make ‘trustless’ the new norm of transactions and no single entity could hold
disproportionate power over another. Unfortunately for many of the visionaries of the time, these calls
mostly went unanswered. Throughout 2018, the messages resonated but failed to reach beyond the
boundaries of enthusiastic communities of early adopters, and never went on to move the hearts of
the majority.
In 2019, we see decreased presence of projects solely focused on the decentralization ideal, replaced
by stronger sense of realism and practicality. In hindsight, the disruptive world views and the drive for
action demonstrated by the past projects were commendable. However, their execution plans were
either too ‘opportunistic,’ hoping to exploit the mounting hype without in-depth understanding of the
capabilities and limitations of the nascent technology of the time, or ‘overly optimistic,’ lacking viable
product blueprints essential for realizing their visions. Those projects were unable to position
themselves as practical solutions to be considered for adoption by pragmatic problem solvers looking
for cost-effective solutions. However, after the extensive cooldown throughout 2018, surviving
blockchain projects today have their feet on the ground. Enduring paradigm shifts and pivots, they
have validated themselves against stricter standards by investing serious efforts to deliver working
products that prove the value of their vision. Such change of trend in project value proposition is a
telltale sign of the blockchain scene moving towards healthy pragmatism: a point of convergence
where the bar is raised for product functionality and feasibility, along with a higher standard for
professionalism and business ethics. Today, blockchain is evolving into a working, viable
technological solution poised to solve real-world problems. A desirable outcome from the emergence
of pragmatism is the positive market signals it sends - increased performance and scalability,
enterprise-grade service stability, interoperability, and overall improved maturity - making blockchain a
real, attractive option for businesses.

Businesses Will Drive Blockchain Mass Adoption
Blockchain’s history sprang from grassroots, led by remarkable individuals, investors with high risk
profiles, nimble startups helmed by visionary entrepreneurs, and communities of enthusiastic early
adopters. Collectively, they created inspirational blueprints for the future and planted seeds that
ignited blockchain trials across numerous sectors. In 2019, with improving solution maturity and
heightened sense of practicality, the cast of actors in the blockchain scene is expanding. In addition to
startups and agile small businesses, global enterprises and institutions are increasing their adoption
of the young technology. The shift has been set in motion by tech giants with existing
business-to-business engagements in cloud infrastructure and software, such as Amazon, IBM,
Microsoft, and Oracle. In the more end-user facing front, enterprises with massive user base and

7

strong influence over their digital interactions, such as the social media giant Facebook and Asian
mobile ‘super app’ operators Kakao and LINE, are joining in with their own blockchain product trials.
Larger entrants are expected to introduce blockchain-enabled products with higher degree of polish
and refined interfaces appealing to a much wider range of audiences. They will create new end-user
touchpoints at an unprecedented scale by leveraging their massive pool of existing users, stimulating
market adoption and thereby creating inflow of new users for other blockchain projects to benefit from.
Through carefully planned integration of blockchain with their existing services, and with help from
their user experience expertise and brand reputation, larger entrants may shift blockchain market’s
paradigm from the standstill pool of crypto-savvy users who started their customer journey at a
fiat-to-crypto exchange, to a new paradigm dictated by the quality of products driven by user-centricity
and value for the mass. Larger entrants can further contribute to blockchain by introducing their
extensive competencies in numerous sectors to identify new adoption opportunities in traditional
industries.
The blockchain-enabled products that would be offered by larger entrants may not prioritize
decentralization as its foremost value, and may not satisfy a number of key concepts often expected
from a decentralized application (DApp). A new category of products which we look forward from
larger entrants, namely blockchain application (BApp), will instead focus on drawing out the intrinsic
qualities of public blockchain networks to create unique use cases and value propositions previously
not possible without blockchain technology. BApps will transition the purpose of blockchain utilization,
from disintermediation and elimination of central entities for creating a ‘trustless’ world, to integration
of transparency and integrity onto new business opportunities where previous lack of trust and reliable
data would have discouraged transactions and would only have left unfulfilled possibilities. By
repositioning blockchain as a reinforcing technology for trust instead of a new replacement for what
already works in the real world, we expect BApps to serve as onramps that showcase the capabilities
blockchain deliver, promoting further adoption of the technology and accelerating mass adoption.

Why Should Businesses Care About Blockchain?
Businesses can be drawn to blockchain technology for a number of reasons. First and foremost,
blockchain has the potential to significantly lower operation costs if applied to contexts where data
accuracy and trustworthiness is a concern. The cost saving benefit of blockchain becomes particularly
apparent in scenes with multiple parties involved in an entwined collaboration process, where the
value or profit captured by each member is determined by the integrity of the shared data. For
instance, retail supply chain management and insurance claim procedures are among the most
popular targets of blockchain proof of concept projects where the immutable data characteristics of
public blockchain networks are applied.
However, a more fundamental reason for businesses to consider adopting blockchain lies in the
technology’s long-term potential to disrupt existing business models and to create new ones. As a
business model-enabling technology, blockchain supports new ways through which end-users engage
with business to create value. As a shared ledger system that supports tamper-proof data entry, full
transparency, and censorship resistance, blockchain can reduce the need for end-users to adhere to
business procedure or value chain designs established by ‘authorities’ and alternatively choose to
conduct more direct and spontaneous transactions outside their mediation. The transparent nature of
public blockchain network ensures that the data created from customer activities is fully disclosed in a
pseudo-anonymous manner for the benefit of all those involved in the transaction, not just the the
business who is more accustomed to sole ownership of the data. Further, the high level of robustness
against nefarious actors enables blockchain to securely support storage and transfer of tokens and
digital assets on its network without necessitating clumsy add-on security software. This greatly

8

reduces friction from the customer journey when end-users engage in economic activities and content
consumption online, such as making payments or money transfers, receiving and sharing loyalty
points, claiming fractional shares of various assets, participating in crowdfunding, or purchasing
financial products. In conjunction with smart contracts, blockchain supports automation across a vast
range of financial interactions using widely available programming languages and tools. As a result,
end-users are provided with a sophisticated infrastructure on which digitization and financial
automation offers opportunities to realize unprecedented efficiencies.
End-user behaviors constantly shift in response to the constant, multivariate changes in the society
and the world we live in. Whereas the changes are hard to forecast, we can safely assume that
blockchain technology is well-aligned with the user preference we expect to see in the near future
where end-users will desire greater level of convenience and digital freedom in their online activities,
not just in finance or commerce but also in personal information and identity management. The global
shift towards a cashless society where preferred method of payment is fast changing to services with
less friction, for example mobile payments, is an evidence of such behavior shift. With some
extrapolation, it is not difficult to imagine that frictionless payment service on blockchain infrastructure
where users could securely spend or transfer any amounts of money with negligible fee and
immediate responsiveness would be well-received, creating a new competitive edge in competition.
Businesses hoping to stay relevant in the market must continuously adapt and renew their value
proposition in response to the changing environments. Correctly understanding emerging
technologies poised for widespread adoption and explosive growth is an important part of making
preparations for the future. With this understanding, businesses have maintained a keen, explorative
interest in blockchain technology for the past few years. In 2019, we see multiple signs of those early
interests and trials being materialized into a sense of reality.

9

2. Klaytn’s Vision of Mass Adoption
Why is Mass Adoption an Important Goal?
The term “mass adoption” has gained popularity from late 2018, attaining a buzzword-like status
similar to ‘ICO’ and ‘DApp’ that came earlier. It is often referred to as the next big thing in blockchain,
often with a strong tone of anticipation - yet the term is somewhat unclear in its meaning and a
general consensus on its definition seems yet to be reached.
With its mission set on achieving mass adoption, Klaytn has clear ideas about what the concept
should comprise. Mass adoption is not the end goal, but rather a phase - a very important, meaningful
next step for blockchain projects. Mass adoption represents a state of the market where products or
services enabled by blockchain has crossed the adoption chasm and has started to gain widespread
acceptance by the early majority of non-crypto users. The term also implies that a number of major
challenges that hinder adoption today, such as usability hurdle for end-users involving wallets and
private key management, or data privacy problem that prohibits adoption by organizations holding
sensitive data, has been resolved in some form.
Mass adoption will be a groundbreaking turning point for blockchain, because the inflow of end-users
means greater volume of user activity, and more activity leads to larger amount of data becoming
available for businesses to intake and advance their product and service offerings. After achieving
mass adoption, the lead time for discovering new valuable use cases will be shortened significantly,
and achieving self-sustainable blockchain-driven business models will become a tangible goal. These
advances will be made possible through shortened product iteration cycles and abundant data, which
will in turn expedite the search for blockchain product-market fit. In overall, blockchain technology will
be able to stand on more stable grounds, with the gap between solutions created by the technology
and the demand for them bridged by a solidified market.

Challenges to Blockchain Mass Adoption
As of now, blockchain is an immature technology with only a few years of eventful history under its
belt. There are still many steep challenges ahead for blockchain mass adoption: for example, despite
its existential purpose stated as becoming the “technology of trust,” blockchain is still often perceived
as untrustworthy by many potential users. Limited scalability, low throughput, slow responsiveness,
and uncertain reliability are among the friction points that often stand in the way of winning over
clients from conventional technologies. The intrinsically high level of complexity originating from being
a crossbreed of modern cryptography, peer-to-peer networking, and database systems further distract
customers from grasping why blockchain is relevant to their sector. Making matters more complicated,
legacy systems that organizations may replace with blockchain technologies to benefit from efficiency
improvement are often deeply entrenched as integral parts of their current business. The engineering
workforce required to implement blockchain solutions are often too expensive to finance and difficult
to staff.
The emerging trend of large entrants strengthening their interest in blockchain and launching strategic
trials is exciting, and their initiatives are welcomed as a meaningful step forward. However, having
bigger players joining the playing field is only incremental progress, insufficient to trigger mass
adoption by itself. Blockchain mass adoption remains a mighty challenge because even if enterprises
and institutions create exposure to their massive existing user pools, the nontrivial hurdles of user
conversion and retention remains. Numerous tech-savvy, disruptive entrepreneurs are currently

10

investing tremendous efforts to deliver blockchain products offering ingenious customer experience
that address the onboarding friction and retention problems, but at the end of the day, they face great
difficulty finding users that they could bring onboard. User acquisition, especially targeting users that
do not originate from cryptocurrency exchanges (and therefore are less interested in speculative
token trading and more genuinely interested in the utility of the product) is a decidedly arduous task in
the blockchain product scene today. Even when we eventually do come across a few projects that
succeed in creating meaningful user base and sufficient level of retention, it is difficult to expect those
few specimens to organically grow and trigger mass adoption - because massive user conversion is
only achieved by crossing the chasm, and this requires business to scale up and actively connect with
users by spending great amount of resource to acquire them. Crossing the chasm essentially involves
industry-building efforts that must be collaborated among the large bodies of end-users and
businesses of all sizes, including enterprises. To this end, blockchain is still untamed and unoptimized
for enterprises to consider, and will require months or perhaps years of validation to be considered a
viable solution to solve large scale problems.

How Will Klaytn Achieve Blockchain Mass Adoption?
To address the multi-faceted challenge of blockchain mass adoption, Klaytn opts for a multi-pronged
strategy to enhance the experience of three different categories of users by delivering three separate
packages: developer experience (DX) offerings, user experience (UX) offerings, and enterprise
experience (EX) offerings. The offerings are designed to realize Klaytn’s goal of creating a
business-centric, enterprise-grade blockchain ecosystem based on highly scalable and reliable
infrastructure, populated by quality blockchain products and services, supported by steady inflow of
end-users to consume the services, and aptly capable of scaling in collaboration with enterprises to
reach mass adoption.
The goal of Klaytn’s enhanced DX is to invest in the most sure-fire way of realizing blockchain mass
adoption: to ensure that great products are developed and made available on Klaytn ecosystem. Only
when we deliver blockchain applications that embrace the technology’s key values such as
transparency or tokenization into its core design, with remarkable polish and usability that those
products become inseparable from the users’ daily lives - only with this level of retention shall we see
user base build up in support for the product, see those groups expand and become communities,
and find user behavior data accumulate in meaningful volumes. When the aggregated user data could
be used to discover valuable insights, that moment will become the start of a virtuous cycle of
blockchain product evolution, leading up to the inevitable mass adoption.
To alleviate the hurdles that businesses face when trying to develop quality blockchain products and
services, Klaytn will provide the necessary underlying technology and development tools that address
numerous friction points. DX offerings will start with integrated development environments and
blockchain interoperability software, and will expand to include developer-friendly platform features
and policies: these will include the platform infrastructure committed to providing reliable throughput at
2,500 tps and above, immediate responsiveness targeting 1-second finality on each block, and
predictable operational costs based on a fixed transaction fee model. Further, to enable frictionless
user usage, Klaytn offers platform-level support for businesses to subsidize transaction fee for their
users.
In addition, Klaytn will be dedicated to provide a more fundamental developer support initiative by
creating new user acquisition channels through its network of numerous enterprise and service
partners by way of funneling their existing user base onto Klaytn. This will help blockchain application
providers discover the scarce non-crypto users that they could acquire and accumulate to build their

11

own user bases, reinforcing developers’ motivation to improve their products and deliver better
values.
To deliver better blockchain UX, Klaytn aims to provide blockchain service providers with the means
to minimize user acquisition hurdles and technical unfamiliarity challenges, such as account creation
and management, private key safekeeping, and wallet provisioning and setup. Additional Klaytn
offerings will include user experience guidelines, references for implementing intuitive, easy-to-use
interface for wallets, and digital asset-related interaction designs. Klaytn will also provide highly
usable block explorers that seamlessly integrate with a wide range of blockchain application usage
scenes.
To improve EX and better address the adoptions hurdles that enterprises experience, Klaytn plans to
provide enterprise-grade network infrastructure with built-in reliability support and high throughput that
enables companies to deliver blockchain products that satisfy modern end-user experience
expectations without sacrificing public blockchain’s unique values of transparency, security, and
censorship resistance. Further, to provide for the flexibility and customizability required to be
considered for new technology adoption, Klaytn provides Service Chain as a native scalability solution
that doubles as a customization feature for enterprises to configure their own blockchain network.
Service Chain will offer extensive customization for individual organizations, including data privacy
policy and performance output goals, helping stakeholders obtain organizational buy-in and
decision-making comfort. Lastly, Klaytn supports businesses to continue leveraging their legacy
investments by providing useful tools to seamlessly integrate existing assets, such as business
intelligence or analytics tools, to help them avoid introducing additional friction in bringing blockchain
into the operations process.
Klaytn’s mission is to become the first blockchain solution to bring blockchain mass adoption to the
world. To that end, we are committed to making cutting edge technologies easy to reach and
frictionless to use, paving the road for a wider audience to experience and appreciate their value. By
building a significant user base held together by trustful relationship, and by providing useful
technologies as enabling infrastructure, we believe we can build a collaborative playground of new,
adventurous businesses working hand in hand with users and communities to discover new
opportunities and product-market fits, and accelerate the speed of new innovations reaching
mainstream.

12

3. Klaytn Design
Overview of Klaytn Architecture
Klaytn’s technology is designed to make widely available a highly-reliable, high-performance,
trust-reinforcing blockchain platform that enables massive-scale products and services to benefit from
a higher degree of transparency, integrity, and security. To achieve these goals, Klaytn has built a
platform design based on carefully researched product principles and innovative ideas. Figure 1
illustrates the overall architecture of Klaytn, highlighting major components which will be described in
further detail in the following sections. With design goals clearly set on mass adoption driven by
service providers and enterprises, Klaytn’s platform architecture accommodates high level of
flexibility, expandability, and modularity needed for horizontal growth across multiple sectors, with
built-in scalability solutions and modular toolkits easily adaptable for differentiated global business
needs.

Figure 1. Klaytn Blockchain Platform Architecture

Klaytn will progressively evolve its platform architecture and software designs over time as the project
advances, in collaboration with its ecosystem participants and contributors. Klaytn plans to
periodically release technical reports on performance improvements achieved by its design choices
and implementations, as to share insights and learnings with the community and thereby to stimulate
technical growth across all members comprising its ecosystem.
The Trust Model in Klaytn
Private blockchain can reach consensus more efficiently than public chains. BFT (Byzantine Fault
Tolerant) based private blockchains, in particular, are capable of achieving high performance and
efficiency by restricting the number of participant nodes. Such configurations, however, make an
expensive trade-off: they fail to make meaningful use of blockchain benefits because limiting the
number of nodes reduces data redundancy and weakens decentralization, and their permissive nature
degrades transparency since consensus results are only open to a small group of participants.

13

Klaytn, however, chose Istanbul BFT as its consensus algorithm based on the belief that BFT’s
performance benefits can be combined with the benefits of public blockchains through smart design
choices. We believe that it is possible to build a public blockchain that retains its robust security and
transparency while delivering enterprise-grade performance and reliability. Towards this goal, Klaytn
adopts a trust model of ​private consensus with public disclosure​, where a smaller group of consensus
nodes (CNs) executes BFT consensus in a private network while surrounded by a larger public
network of permissionless endpoint nodes (ENs) openly accessing (and where necessary, verifying)
block generation results. Ultimately, Klaytn aims to perfect the combined balance of public security
and transparency on a high-performance backend that empowers businesses and end-users with
easy and reliable access to benefits offered by blockchain technology, and will continue to refine its
network design to best support this objective.

Klaytn Network Structure
Klaytn blockchain network is a combination of multiple peer-to-peer subnetworks composed of Klaytn
nodes transmitting transactions and block data to execute value transfers and to execute smart
contracts. Klaytn network can be subdivided into three logical subnetworks based on their roles and
purposes, as shown in Figure 2.

Figure 2. Klaytn Network’s Constituent Subnetworks

Core Cell Network (CCN)
CCN consists of Core Cells (CCs) that verify and execute transactions submitted through Endpoint
Nodes (ENs). CCN is also responsible for creating and propagating blocks throughout the network.
Endpoint Node Network (ENN)
ENN consists of Endpoint Nodes (ENs) that mainly create transactions, handle RPC API requests,
and process data requests from service chains.

14

Service Chain Network (SCN)
SCNs are Klaytn subnetworks composed of auxiliary blockchains independently operated by
blockchain applications (BApps). Servicechains are connected via ENN to handle data requests
together with Klaytn network.

Klaytn Main Chain Network
Figure 3 shows the topology of Klaytn’s main chain network, where its CCN is shown in further detail
revealing its two-layer constituent networks: Consensus Node Network (CNN) and Proxy Node
Network (PNN). ENN which has been introduced in Figure 2 is also shown as a surrounding network
outside PNN, with direct connections established between ENN and PNN.

Figure 3. Klaytn Network Physical Topology & Core Cell Breakdown

Core Cell (CC)
CCN is composed of Core Cells (CCs), which is again composed of a single Consensus Node (CN)
and two Proxy Nodes (PNs).
Consensus Node Network (CNN)
CNs form a full-mesh network among themselves called CNN. CNN executes BFT consensus over a
WAN (wide area network) and requires each CN to satisfy stringent hardware and network resource
requirements to carry out the consensus at a sufficient level of performance.

15

Proxy Node Network (PNN)
PNs are connected with each other and forms PNN. PNs explicitly do not connect with their peer
within the same CC. Typically, PNs maintain just one connection with a peer PN, but this number is
subject to change depending on the network configuration.
Endpoint Node Network (ENN)
The outermost subnetwork in Figure 3, ENN, is solely composed of ENs connected to each other and
also to a number of PNs. ENs serve as endpoints for Klaytn network, handling RPC API requests and
processing data sent to and from service chains.
Bootnode
Bootnodes are special type nodes operated by Klaytn to help newly joining nodes register to the
network and to discover other nodes to connect with. CN bootnodes reside within CNN and are not
directly exposed to the public, while PN and EN bootnodes are publicly visible. PN bootnodes only
allow permitted PNs to be registered, and lets eligible PNs connect with ENs. EN bootnodes provide
ENs with information on which PNs to connect to.

Block Generation and Propagation
As a service-centric blockchain committed to achieving enterprise-grade performance and reliability,
Klaytn is designed to minimize network latency and to secure high responsiveness that leads to
quality end-user experience. The design choices integrated to block generation and propagation, in
combination with the choice of consensus algorithm, play a very important role in determining the
level of usability of a blockchain platform.
Block Generation Cycle
A ​round​ is a block generation cycle in Klaytn. Each round generates a new block, and is immediately
followed by the start of a new round. Klaytn targets each round to last approximately one second,
although block generation interval may be influenced by network traffic and node operation conditions.
Proposer and Committee Selection
In each round, Klaytn randomly but deterministically selects a Consensus Node (CN) as the proposer
for the block to be created, and then selects a group of CNs as the committee for the given round.
Klaytn is not directly involved in the selection of either the proposer or committee; instead, each CN
uses a random number derived from the most recent block header to run a cryptographic operation
which yields proof that the CN in question has (or has not) been selected to perform a role for the
round. The committee size should be Byzantine resistant; if the size of the CNN is small, all CNs
(except the proposer) are eligible to be selected as committee members.
Block Proposal and Validation
Once selected, the proposer broadcasts its proof of selection for the round (i.e., a cryptographic proof
verifiable by the public key of the proposer) to all CNs. Thereafter, the CNs selected as committee for
the given round responds to the proposer with their own proofs of selection, notifying the proposer to
whom to broadcast the new block to be proposed. The proposer then selects a set of transactions
from its transaction pool and creates a block by ordering them. Lastly, the proposer executes
consensus with the committee to agree upon and finalize the newly created block. Note that Klaytn
plans to continuously improve its consensus algorithm to achieve higher security and efficiency.

16

Block Propagation
A proposed block must receive signatures from more than two-thirds of the committee members to be
successfully finalized. When the committee reaches consensus, the new block is propagated to all
CNs and the consensus round ends. Once the new block is propagated to all CNs, the information of
the newly created block can be made available to all Klaytn network participants by delivering block
header and body data to ENN through PNN.
Public Disclosure and Open Validation
Service providers and end-users on Klaytn network can freely validate block generation results and
check if the CN committee have generated the block according to proper procedures. Such validation
includes checking if the block header contains more than two-thirds of the committee signatures. All
CNs must support open validation and are required to post their public keys (used to sign blocks) in a
publicly accessible space (e.g., block headers). Open validation promotes transparency, deter
censorship, and prevent malicious behaviors.

Separated Propagation Channels for Blocks and Transactions
A network’s latency is heavily affected by its degree of congestion. Assuming the network’s
throughput remains constant, increased number of transactions will cause the network’s latency to be
proportionately delayed. Latency delay is a critical issue in ensuring satisfactory end-user experience
using BApps; typical users of legacy mobile apps or web services will not tolerate response time that
takes more than a few seconds, and blockchain services have no reason to assume a higher user
tolerance.
Klaytn adopts a multichannel approach in order to handle network congestion issues. By assigning
separate propagation channels for transactions and blocks, Klaytn network is able to propagate newly
created blocks in a timely manner even when the network faces heavy congestion with high number
of transactions. In this way, Klaytn ensures that BApps on its network can stay responsive to end-user
requests regardless of intermittent network traffic spikes.
Block rewards
For each round, block reward (the sum of newly minted KLAY and transaction fees paid to process
the block, which is ​9.6 KLAY​ as of mid-2019) will be distributed to Klaytn’s token economy structures
according to preset distribution ratios. The proposer of the newly created block will receive 100% of
the reward to be awarded to CNs, whereas the committee will receive none. Note that the probability
of being selected as the proposer is influenced by the amount of KLAY staked by the CN, implying
that a CN with more KLAY invested in the platform will probabilistically receive more rewards. Details
of block reward distribution can be found in a later section of this document (“Klaytn Token
Economy”), or at Klaytn Docs (​https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/token_economy​).

Klaytn Accounts
Overview of Account, State, and Address
An ​account​ in Klaytn is a data structure containing information about a person or a smart contract.
Klaytn’s ​state​ is the collection of all its accounts’ states - that is, the past and current state of all data
stored across Klaytn’s accounts. When a transaction is executed on a Klaytn node, the state of Klaytn
consequently changes across all its nodes. The state should be the same across all Klaytn nodes

17

within the Klaytn network if they have processed the same blocks in the same order. State information
of each account is associated with a 20-byte ​address​, which is used to identify each account.
Decoupling the Address from the Key
In a typical blockchain platform, an account is associated with a cryptographically processed address
of a certain length that usually looks like this: ​"0x0fe2e20716753082222b52e753854f40afddffd2"​.
Such address is strongly coupled with a key pair - the address is deterministically derived from the
public key of the key pair chosen for the account. This scheme has a number of disadvantages in
terms of user experience. Some of them are the following:
●
●
●

Users cannot choose an address they want because it is derived from a randomly generated
key
Users cannot associate multiple key pairs to an account as to better protect their accounts
because each account address is singly paired with a single set of keys
Users cannot change their account’s key pair when the private key has been accidentally
exposed or compromised, or even when the account owner wants to practice safe security by
periodically changing his/her key

The above limitations prevent users from recognizing account addresses as their identifiers, and this
leads to a significant usability hurdle. To mitigate this issue, Klaytn provides the function to let users
choose the address they would like to use, and also the key pairs they would like to associate with the
given addresses. With this feature, users can custom-select the address that they want to use for the
long-run, and they can also associate multiple key pairs to increase the account’s security. When
more than one key pair is assigned to an account, each key pairs may be assigned a different role. It
is worth noting that Klaytn also supports the more general scheme of accounts with address strongly
coupled with a single key pair.
Multi-Key Pairs and Role-Based Keys
When an account’s private key is stolen or exposed, nothing can be done by the owner of the
compromised account to restore the account’s security. The best hope for the unfortunate owner will
be to generate another key pair to create a new account and then migrate the balance from the old
compromised account to the new one while the balance still remains.
Lack of support for advanced key schemes such as multi-sig or usage-specific key is another major
source of user inconvenience. To efficiently address the problem, Klaytn accounts provide the
following capabilities:
●
●
●

Klaytn account allows the key pair associated with the account to be changed
Klaytn account supports multiple key pairs, along with the ability to assign each key with a
different purpose
Klaytn account maintains compatibility with accounts with a single key pair strongly coupled
with its address

By utilizing Klaytn account’s role-based multi-key support users can better handle real-life security risk
situations such as private key mismanagement. For example, when a user realizes that his or her
private key has been exposed, the user can simply replace the compromised private key by removing
the exposed key pair from his or her account and creating a new key pair to replace them. This can be
done by using a dedicated key reserved for updating account information which has been created in
advance and stored separately from the compromised private key.
Human-Readable Address (HRA)

18

The address scheme commonly found in blockchain platforms (using cryptographically processed
address that looks like: ​“0x0fe2e20716753082222b52e753854f40afddffd2”)​ has its strength in
privacy: they provide pseudo-anonymity that efficiently protects the privacy of account holders.
However, the scheme also creates major problems in user experience. First, it is very difficult for a
human brain to memorize, or even recognize, such addresses. This makes them prone to input
mistakes and various human errors that often lead to non-trivial financial damages. Second, such
scheme takes away from users the power to choose one’s own preferred identity handle that’s easier
to memorize or use. Combined, these problems are among the toughest usability hurdles that cause
BApp user experience for typical end-users (who are more accustomed to the simpler, frictionless
user experience offered by legacy mobile apps or services) to be perceived as alien,
incomprehensible, and severely inconvenient. To overcome the usability challenge without
undertaking large-scale architectural modifications and while preserving backward compatibility,
Klaytn aims to provide a mapping between a 20-byte address to a 20-byte length text string that users
could customize to create their own preferred account address. This feature in Klaytn will be called
human-readable address (HRA), and is currently under development with more information to be
disclosed as soon as they are made available.
Klaytn Wallet Key: A Unique Klaytn Key Format
Klaytn Wallet Key​ is Klaytn’s unique key format designed to offer better convenience in managing
Klaytn account’s private key along with its corresponding address information. The key scheme binds
the two pieces of critical information into one, helping users store it more easily.
Klaytn Wallet Key format is:
0x{private key}0x{type}0x{address in hex}
The key is in hexadecimal notation, and ​{type}​ always equals “00”. Other values are reserved.
An example Klaytn Wallet Key is shown below:
0x45a915e4d060149eb4365960e6a7a45f334393093061116b197e3240065ff2d80x000xa94f5
374fce5edbc8e2a8697c15331677e6ebf0b

Klaytn Account Types
There are two account types in Klaytn: ​externally owned account (EOA)​ and ​smart contract
account (SCA)​.
EOA contains information such as nonce and balance; it does not contain code or storage. This type
of account is created using a key pair, and is subsequently controlled by anyone who has the key pair.
SCA has code associated with the account and is controlled by its code. SCA is created by smart
contract deployment transactions; once deployed, this account type cannot initiate new transactions
by itself and must be triggered by another account to execute, either by an EOA or another SCA.

Klaytn Transactions
Transactions Overview
A transaction in a blockchain platform is a message sent between nodes that changes the state of the
blockchain. For example, when a transaction that sends 10 KLAY from Alice’s account to Bob’s is
executed, Alice's balance is decreased by 10 KLAY, and Bob's balance is increased by 10 KLAY.

19

Note that a transaction cannot be interleaved with another transaction because a transaction is an
atomic operation. A typical blockchain transaction has components as shown below:

Components

Description

value

The amount of value (in tokens) to be transferred.

to

The account address that will receive the transferred value.

input

Data attached to the transaction, used for transaction execution.

v, r, s

The cryptographic signature generated by the sender to let the receiver obtain the
sender's address.

nonce

A value used to uniquely identify a sender’s transaction. If two transactions with the
same nonce are generated by a sender, only one is executed.

gas

The maximum amount of transaction fee the transaction is allowed to use.

gasPrice

A multiplier to get how much the sender will pay in tokens. The amount of tokens
the sender will pay is calculated via ​gas​ * ​gasPrice​. For example, the sender will
pay 10 KLAY for a transaction fee if ​gas​ is 10 and ​gasPrice​ is 10^18.

Klaytn improves the single transaction model typically found in blockchain platforms by providing
multiple transaction types that empower transactions with new capabilities and optimizations for
memory footprint and performance.
Signature Validation of Transactions
In typical blockchain platforms, the sender address is derived from the public key which is derived
again from the transaction signature. This is possible only if the address and the key pair are strongly
coupled. Since the key pair has been decoupled from the address in Klaytn accounts, the sender
address cannot be derived using the transaction signature. This is why Klaytn transaction types (with
the except of ​TxTypeLegacyTransaction​) have the field ​from​. In Klaytn, to validate a transaction, the
account key of the ​from​ account is obtained and then the obtained key is used to validate the
transaction signature.
Fee Delegation
To provide businesses with the flexibility they need to design new business model, Klaytn provides a
number of fee delegated versions of basic transaction types. These variants enable service providers
to subsidize their end-user activities by paying for their transaction fees. Transaction fee subsidization
can be further customized by using transaction variants with the Ratio parameter, letting service
providers designate the percentage of the fee they would cover. Fee delegation transactions require
at least two signatures: one from the sender, and another from the fee payer.
SenderTxHash
SenderTxHash​ is a hash value of a fee delegated transaction without the fee payer's address and
signature filled in. Since the final transaction hash of a fee-delegated transaction cannot be
determined until the fee payer signs the transaction, it’s difficult for the original transaction sender to

20

track the transaction en-route while it’s not finalized by the fee payer. To remedy this problem, Klaytn
provides ​SenderTxHash​ in addition to the transaction hash. For the sender to track the completed fee
delegation transaction, he/she first generates a ​SenderTxHash​ and then requests for the finalized
transaction information with a dedicated fetch function using the ​SenderTxHash​ as an argument.
For more in-depth information about the transaction types supported by Klaytn, please visit Klaytn
Docs (​https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions​).

Computation
Klaytn Smart Contracts
Smart contracts in Klaytn are programs that implement business logics, games, libraries, token
transfers, or any type of code interacting with the Klaytn blockchain. When conditions described in the
smart contract are met, the contract executes immediately. The terms within smart contracts are
described in programming language; their contents data are stored as their state.
Klaytn provides several ways to write and execute smart contracts on the Klaytn network. First, Klaytn
supports Solidity and maintains interoperability with Ethereum development toolkits such as Remix or
Truffle. Smart contracts written in Solidity can be compiled using existing Solidity compilers and
execute on Klaytn without additional work. Since Solidity is the ​de facto​ standard contract
programming language in Ethereum and is backed by active communities, Klaytn supports the
language to provide developers with the most familiar development environment onto which Ethereum
DApp developers could easily migrate their existing work.
In the future, Klaytn plans to accommodate smart contracts written in various programming
languages, in order to extend support to a broader range of potential developers and provide them
with development experience they feel they’re most familiar with. Going forward, Klaytn will continue
to explore various programming languages that developers find interesting.
Affordable Smart Contract Execution Cost
One of the reasons that blockchains charge fees on smart contract executions is to utilize limited
resources efficiently by preventing poorly or maliciously written contracts from running. That is,
a blockchain platform increases the financial cost of running smart contracts intentionally (1) to induce
developers to write efficient code, and (2) to deter adversaries in launching attacks by minimizing the
expected financial gains. With a successful strategy, the fees charged on normal executions should
be small, although the fees from malicious executions should be large. Although Ethereum’s
opcode-based fee model is useful in discouraging wasting of resources, it may also dampen ordinary
smart contract executions due to high gas prices on some opcodes (e.g., state write), hindering the
adoption of blockchain technologies. To address this problem, Klaytn plans to use an opcode-based
fixed fee model with (1) low unit cost per opcode and (2) a metered pricing model.
1. Opcode cost is directly related to the amount of resources that the platform can use. The
Ethereum state write cost is high since the storage, and the network bandwidth required to
record and propagate the changed states are limited. Conversely, if a blockchain has
abundant resources (e.g., CPU time, storage, network bandwidth), then the unit cost per
opcode can be substantially lower than that of Ethereum, and the cost difference between
opcodes can be minimized. Klaytn aims to lower opcode unit cost by vertically scaling each
CN node (i.e., acquiring high-end hardware), parallelizing computation (i.e., logical scaling via
servicechain), and horizontally scaling physical clusters (i.e., adding regions).

21

2. The Ethereum smart contract fees are determined by the sum of gasses required to execute
opcodes. Although such a strategy is intuitive and effective, as the resulting cost is directly
proportional to the number of executed opcodes, a small change in a smart contract can
increase the execution cost significantly. To address this problem, Klaytn suggests a metered
pricing model that adjusts the execution cost to the same level for a prescribed range of
opcode execution. With a low unit cost per opcode and the metered model, most of (relatively)
short smart contract executions can be performed at a lower, stable cost.
Low price volatility
The reason Ethereum has chosen a complex gas-based fee model is to distribute computing
resources efficiently and to minimize the impact of cryptocurrency fluctuation by avoiding direct
mapping between ETH and fiat currency. Klaytn will also adopt this model with some modifications to
decouple the cost of smart contract execution from the exchange rate of KLAY.
Smart Contract Language
For writing smart contracts, Klaytn currently supports Solidity as the primary programming language.
Solidity is adopted to Klaytn because it is the de facto standard contract programming language for
Ethereum and has a large user base and an active community, and Klaytn aims to serve the
community with familiar development experience so that the Ethereum DApp developers could easily
experiment with or migrate their existing smart contracts on to Klaytn. In the future, Klaytn will support
smart contract development using other programming languages. Investigation regarding various
favorable programming languages that developers might embrace is currently ongoing. For more
in-depth information about Solidity on Klaytn, please visit Klaytn Docs
(​https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/computation/language​).
Klaytn Token Standards
Maximizing end-user and developer experience is a key goal in Klaytn's design principles. Klaytn’s
decision to adopt Solidity as its smart contract language is an example of the principles in action,
since the decision was made based on the fact that Solidity is widely adopted. The same logic applies
for fungible and non-fungible token standards: Klaytn supports Ethereum token standards, specifically
ERC20 and ERC721. These standards are widely adopted among blockchain developers, therefore
Klaytn adheres to Ethereum compatibility as to provide a more familiar developer experience. For
more in-depth information about Klaytn’s token standards, please visit Klaytn Docs
(​https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/computation/token_standard​).
Klaytn Execution Model
Transactions can be generated by platform APIs as described in Platform API Specification
(​https://docs.klaytn.com/api/platform​). These transactions are sent to Consensus Nodes (CNs) to be
stored in a block. CNs check whether each received transaction is valid. Valid transactions are stored
in the transaction pool; otherwise, they are discarded. A CN selects the executable transactions in the
current block in its transaction pool and executes them one by one.
To execute a transaction, the sender must pay some amount of KLAY as a transaction fee. This
transaction fee in KLAY is calculated based on gas and a multiplier, ​i.e.​, gas price. Gas is a
fundamental unit of computation. Every operation executed on a Klaytn node consumes a predefined
amount of gas. The exact amount of KLAY required for the transaction is calculated by the formula
illustrated in Transaction Fee (​https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/computation/exec_model​). The

22

transaction can fail if the sender submits a transaction accompanied by insufficient gas. A transaction
can also fail if the sender's account has an insufficient balance.
When a transaction is executed successfully, it is included in the current block. A CN gathers
transactions until it reaches block gas limit or block time limit. Then, the CN makes a block with the
transactions. This step requires filling several fields in the block. For example, it must calculate the
hash values of transactions, receipts, state, etc. After all required fields have been completed, the CN
generates a block hash.
When block generation is complete, the block is propagated to all the other CNs. The other CNs all
verify the propagated block and reach consensus on the verification results by exploiting the BFT
consensus algorithm. When the verification process completes successfully by the majority of CNs,
the block is stored in the blockchain. Because the BFT consensus algorithm satisfies the immediate
finality property, the block is final and is never removed. After a block is finalized, the execution of all
the transactions in that block are irreversibly guaranteed, and their execution results can be returned
to the sender if requested.
Creating Smart Contracts
A smart contract can be created in the Klaytn blockchain by sending a transaction to an empty
address with the binary as data. The binary can be in various formats; however, Klaytn currently
supports one binary format, EVM bytecode. It is worth pointing out that this transaction requires a
payment for execution. The account balance on the sender's account will be reduced according to the
transaction fee model after the transaction has been stored in a block. After some time, the
transaction should appear in a block, which confirms that the state it entails reached a consensus. At
this point, the smart contract now exists in the Klaytn blockchain.
Executing Smart Contracts
A function of a smart contract can be called and executed either by sending a transaction to the smart
contract or by calling the function locally in the node. When a function is called by sending a
transaction, the function is executed by processing a transaction. This entails a cost in KLAY for
sending the transaction, and the call will be recorded forever on the blockchain. The return value of
calls made in this manner is the hash of the transaction. When the function is invoked locally, it is
executed locally in the Klaytn Virtual Machine (KLVM), and the call returns the return value of the
function. Calls made in this manner are not recorded on the blockchain; thus, they cannot modify the
internal state of the contract. This type of call is referred to as a constant function call. Calls made in
this manner do not cost any KLAY. Constant function calls should be used when only the return value
is of interest, while a transaction should be used when side effects on the contract state are of
interest.
Disabling Smart Contracts
Because smart contracts exist in the Klaytn blockchain, they cannot be deleted; they can only be
disabled. For now, Klaytn has adopted the same process for disabling a Klaytn smart contract as is
used for disabling smart contracts in Ethereum. For example, the Klaytn smart contract for KLVM can
be disabled by using the ​selfdestruct (address recipient)​ call in Solidity (or the KLVM
opcode ​SELFDESTRUCT​). The Klaytn team will also provide ways to disable smart contracts for other
execution environments.
Upgrading Smart Contracts

23

Klaytn will provide ways to upgrade a deployed smart contract to address the inconvenient user
experience with existing blockchains. For example, deployed services on blockchains are difficult to
upgrade. Klaytn will provide frameworks and smart contract libraries to enable service providers (SPs)
to upgrade deployed services and migrate service information. Klaytn will provide this feature carefully
by considering the following requirements.
● Only authorized accounts or the owner of a smart contract should be able to upgrade the
smart contract.
● Upgraded smart contracts should be able to manipulate existing data maintained by the old
smart contract.
● Other smart contracts that refer to the old smart contracts should be able to determine
whether to use newer, upgraded versions of those smart contracts.
Klaytn Tokens and Transaction Fees
KLAY is the main internal transferable cryptocurrency of Klaytn and is used to pay transaction fees
when creating or executing smart contracts or when transferring KLAY.
KLAY is a necessary element - in essence, the fuel - for operating Klaytn network. It is a form of
payment made by the platform users to the consensus nodes (CNs) executing the requested
operations. To put in another way, KLAY is an incentive; it ensures that developers write high-quality
applications (because wasteful code costs more fee) and that the network remains healthy (Klaytn
nodes are compensated for the resources they contribute).
Transaction fee in Klaytn can be calculated in various ways depending on the execution environment
where the transaction is executed. For example, the transaction fee for the current Klaytn virtual
machine (KLVM) is computed as follows:
Transaction fee := F( (total gas used) x (unit price) )
●

●

F()​ could be a stepwise pricing function. This function is not finalized yet and is subject to
change during further development of Klaytn. For Klaytn testnet, ​F()​ is an identity function,
and the transaction fee is simply calculated as ​(total gas used) x (unit price)​.
The ​total gas used​ is computed by KLVM based on the gas cost of the opcode and the
intrinsic gas cost..

This calculated transaction fee is subtracted from the sender's or enterprise account's balance,
depending on the transaction. For further in-depth information on KLAY token and transaction fee,
please visit Klaytn Docs (​https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/computation/exec_model​).

Klaytn Virtual Machine (KLVM)
KLVM is a virtual state machine that formally specify Klaytn's execution model. The execution model
specifies how the system state is altered given a series of bytecode instructions and a small tuple of
environmental data. KLVM is a quasi Turing-complete machine; the ​quasi​ qualification stems from the
fact that the computation is intrinsically bounded through a parameter, ​gas​, which limits the total
amount of computation performed.
KLVM executes Klaytn virtual machine code (or Klaytn bytecode) which consists of a sequence of
KLVM instructions. The KLVM code is the programming language used for accounts on the Klaytn
blockchain that contain code. The KLVM code associated with an account is executed every time a

24

message is sent to that account; this code has the ability to read/write from/to storage and send
messages.
The current version of KLVM is derived from the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), and will be
continuously improved by Klaytn developers. In the future, other virtual machines or execution
environments will be integrated to strengthen the capability and performance of Klaytn platform.
How KLVM Differs From EVM
As current KLVM is based on EVM, its specification is quite similar to that of EVM. The key
differences between KLVM and EVM are:
●
●

KLVM uses Klaytn's gas units, such as peb, ston, or KLAY.
KLVM does not accept a gas price from the user; instead, it uses a platform-defined value as
the gas price.

Klaytn developers aims to maintain the compatibility between KLVM and EVM for the foreseeable
future, but as Klaytn development accelerates, KLVM specification will also follow suit and be
updated. This may result in a growing list of differences compared to EVM.

Storage
Block Archiving
The high throughput of Klaytn result in high storage costs. Klaytn plans to perform block-archiving to
ease storage burdens of participating nodes. With block archiving enabled, ENs may remove bodies
of stale blocks, maintaining only a certain number of the last blocks. Only a subgroup of Klaytn
network nodes will keep all the blocks in cost-effective storage and they will serve read requests by
verifying older transactions no longer stored in ENs. However, even block archiving ENs will still have
to keep the headers from all archived blocks in order to allow clients to securely verify the contents of
the archived blocks.
This process can effectively reduce the storage cost of ENs, encouraging diverse participants to join
the ENN. Assuming 100 TPS in average and 1-second block latency, the size of data that an EN must
replicate can be significant. If the average transaction size is 300 bytes, the expected EN daily
storage requirement is 2.5 GB/day. While this does not hinder servers and desktops (where storage
space is more easily expandable and less expensive), certain ENs running their nodes on lighter
machines such as laptops could find this storage requirement a burden. By allowing ENs to only keep
a fixed number of blocks, block archiving will extend its benefits to a broad spectrum of audiences on
the network, fortifying data redundancy and security without requiring ENs to replicate an
ever-growing ledger of blocks.
Whereas removing block bodies may be perceived as weakening decentralization as block archiving
nodes cannot independently verify all historical transactions without the help of other nodes.
Nonetheless, not all applications need constant access to the complete history of transactions, and
we believe that block archiving is a welcome feature strongly preferred by certain groups of services
--- services that require only the latest states of applications. Serving all blocks in this context is
inefficient and less desirable. We believe that block archiving will benefit many applications requiring
high replication levels and the security of blockchain technology.

25

Service Chain
Servicechains in Klaytn network are auxiliary blockchains independent from the Klaytn mainchain,
tailored for individual BApp requiring special node configurations, customized security levels, or
exceptionally high throughput that makes deploying the BApp on the Klaytn mainchain inconvenient or
economically infeasible.
While there are fully-decentralized scaling solutions, their difficult interfaces such as challenge or exit
and non-immediate finality often leads to severely degraded user experience and usability hurdles
that effectively prohibit the majority of average end-users from using the said features. Therefore,
Klaytn has opted towards an approach in its Service Chain where a tradeoff has been weighed
between full decentralization and better usability, instant finality, high performance, and high
availability.
Klaytn servicechains may be used for various service-specific goals, and can connect to the
mainchain for multiple purposes - including data anchoring (periodic storing of block hashes from the
service chain onto the mainchain to compensate for decreased security due to smaller number of
nodes) and value transfer (interchain transfer of tokens including KLAY, Klaytn’s native unit of value,
and Klaytn tokens issued by BApps).
Service Chain Network (SCN)
Servicechains connected to Klaytn mainchain are collectively called SCN. Figure 4 shows the network
topology of service chains being used to meet various business needs, connected with Klaytn
mainchain to expand the Klaytn network.

Figure 4. Klaytn Main Chain and Service Chains

26

Figure 5 shows an example of SCN connected directly with Klaytn mainchain’s endpoint node (EN)
using a main/sub-bridge model to use the servicechain’s features.

Figure 5. Main Chain and Service Chain Connection using Main/Sub-Bridge Model
Note that the method of connection between servicechains and mainchain may change in Klaytn’s
future iterations.
Service Chain Features
Servicechains expand and augment Klaytn by providing a data integrity mechanism and supporting
token transfers between different chains.
For data integrity, servicechains can automatically anchor every block hash of its constituent blocks
onto the main chain using a special transaction. This ​anchoring​ of data can ensure to the servicechain
users that the data in the particular chain has not been altered once it is created.
To help service providers easily migrate their users and assets across chains, Klaytn supports token
transfer of KLAY or BApp-issued Klaytn tokens between different chains. Users can easily request for
token transfer to another chain by sending a transaction to a special contract, called ​bridge contract​.
Note that the value transfer function is currently under development, and will be available in a future
Klaytn update.

Enterprise Proxy
Klaytn Enterprise Proxy (EP) is an off-chain proxy that communicates with underlying Klaytn
blockchain on behalf of businesses that operate blockchain applications (BApp) on Klaytn. EP offers a
layer of managed convenience for its client in order to improve the enterprise experience (EX) aspect
of Klaytn, handling the managerial complexities in communicating with the blockchain - including
transaction preprocessing, injection of necessitated data, and running the smart contracts requested
by the transaction.
EP is designed as an add-on service for enterprise users and larger application providers who can
benefit more from seamless integration with key legacy assets and tools without negatively impacting
one of the most important quality of blockchain - decentralization. In this regard, EP is a differentiation
feature for Klaytn as it encompasses various offerings of useful tools for enterprise users, including
Oracle, an application-specific dashboard. Further, EP enables enterprise users to use Klaytn

27

blockchain with traditional database and security systems typically believed to be difficult to integrate
with decentralized systems, such as access control layers (ACL), firewalls (FW), and fraud detection
systems (FDS). At its onset, EP will be offered as a software framework that stands between the
legacy backend systems and Klaytn. In this way, EP allows users without extensive knowledge about
blockchain to easily sync blockchain data and relay transactions via a single configuration.
EP provides BApp service providers with two main usages. First, EP functions as a blockchain
enabler reduce the technical hurdles in tasks inevitable for using blockchain technology. Second, EP
serves as a legacy system integrator that supports Klaytn blockchain integration with traditional
database and security systems.
Blockchain Enabler
From a service provider's perspective, blockchain can be a very unfamiliar technology unlike any
other commercial solutions. For these groups of users, even the simplest value transfers or smart
contract executions may require prohibitive amount of complexities and business logic considerations.
To address this problem, Klaytn will address the fundamental complexity through provisioning of tools
that make it easier to apply blockchain as easy-to-use essential elements readily applicable to existing
services.
Event Handler
The event handler feature aims to address the innate complexities that comes with managing smart
contracts deployed on the blockchain. Smart contracts are critically important elements of a BApp's
business logic that are made publicly accessible and executable once deployed. Further complicating
the problem is the fact that tracking who executed the smart contract to what end is a non-trivial task
in decentralized environment such as blockchain. Event handler alleviates this challenge by
automatically creating event subscribers that track any following events that affect the deployed smart
contract. This feature is achieved through utilizing the application binary interface (ABI) that is created
at the time the smart contract is deployed.
Transaction Manager
Sending transactions is a frequently occurring portion of work that is surprisingly complicated for
BApps to manage properly. Often, a BApp is composed of multiple accounts which are assigned
different roles, where each account can have a separate history of transactions. On each account, the
nonce must be separately managed and coordinated with exact accuracy to avoid inconvenient
transaction failures. The receipts resulting from each transaction are also important data that must be
managed with a clear organization scheme for efficient retrieval that happens inevitably and frequently
during the course of service operation. The transaction manager feature automates most of the heavy
lifting of transaction delivery, including account management for applying the correct account to send
transactions with, authenticating transaction transfers with the correctly corresponding identities and
intentions, and managing transaction receipts in a well-organized manner. In overall, the transaction
manager can be a tremendous help for enterprise users yet unfamiliar with organizing blockchain
transactions.
Chain Router
Klaytn is an easily-scalable blockchain solution where enterprises could compose a separate
blockchain network using Klaytn's native scalability solution Service Chain. This may lead to the
existence of multiple private Service Chains instances operated by partner enterprises alongside the
public Klaytn network. In such case, a BApp collaborating with multiple Klaytn networks may need to

28

state to which network it is sending a transaction. The chain router features handles the identification,
configuration, and management of multiple Klaytn network information for BApp service providers.
Legacy System Integrator
Compatibility and integrability with existing processes and assets are key evaluation criteria used by
businesses when they consider new technologies for adoption. As a distributed system with numerous
points of access and without a unified authority to single-handedly control access privileges,
blockchain technology propose a unique challenge for enterprise in terms of business backend
system integration which corporates typically expect to be centrally controllable. Klaytn aims to solve
this non-trivial challenge using a newly designed approach applied to Enterprise Proxy, incorporating
legacy system integrator features into the offerings.
Request Transcoder
Request transcoder can be compared to a communication translator among heterogeneous systems.
This feature receives requests from legacy systems in their native contexts, for example in REST API
calls or gRPC calls, and converts them to transactions that can be processed by the underlying Klaytn
blockchain network in an efficient manner.
Request Gateway
Collecting user behavior metrics and controlling contract execution request privileges per individual
user is notoriously complex in distributed systems with multiple points of access. EP handles this
challenge by providing a feature that enables service providers to require contract execution calls by
users to be signed by an EP designated by the business. Through this scheme, users must send their
contract execution requests to the EP in order to run the desired contracts, effectively turning the EP
into a request gateway with which the business can collect user behavior metrics and enforce security
measures to authorize user requests.
As aforementioned, collecting metrics in a decentralized environment is a non-trivial task. Using the
request gateway feature, however, businesses can monitor all user requests that go through the EP
and collects meaningful metrics, including the number of DApp users, estimated DApp memory
usage, TPS, service latency, and the average gas price for running contracts. The service provider
can then project the collected metrics on a dashboard to display the status of the BApp, or trigger
other functions or systems to respond to events observed from the metrics. Klaytn will provide a
software framework to help service providers implement business intelligence dashboard systems that
run request gateway to collect metrics and visualize the collected metrics.

29

4. Klaytn Token Economy
Token Economy Overview
Klaytn’s token economy is designed to create sustainable incentive structures for powering its
ecosystem operations, growth initiatives, and strategic investments. Many public blockchain projects
have monetary systems that solely incentivize their node operators (miners or block producers),
focusing only on the technical aspect of network maintenance. However, such designs miss out on
the importance of incentivizing other types of participants who contribute to the growth of the
network’s token economy or invest in long-term growth prospects. In contrast, Klaytn’s token economy
is designed to compensate more diverse forms of contributions from a wider range of participants, and
has built-in incentive structure to procure sustained resources to fuel future growth initiatives and
strategically sourced investment projects in addition to maintaining its blockchain nodes. For detailed
information on token economy, please refer to Token Economy & Governance Paper(to be made
available on https://www.klaytn.com/technology).

Incentive Structure
Klaytn’s incentive structure runs continuously with Klaytn network’s block generation. With every new
block, newly issued KLAY and the sum of transaction fees used in the block (collectively called “block
reward”) are aggregated and distributed to the following three destination accounts in accordance to
the predetermined ratio:
1) Klaytn Governance Council Reward: 34%
2) Proof of Contribution (PoC): 54%
3) Klaytn Improvement Reserve (KIR): 12%
At the time of Klaytn mainnet launch, appropriate amount of KLAY will be minted per block in order to
maintain and improve the Klaytn network. The annual inflation rate is subject to change through the
Klaytn Governance Process. Transaction fee is charged per OPCODE and is metered according to
the transaction fee table. For detailed information on the transaction fee table, please refer to Klaytn
Docs (to be made available on ​https://docs.klaytn.com/​).

Klaytn Governance Council Reward
Klaytn Governance Council is the collective group of Core Cell Operators (CCOs). Council members
are responsible for maintaining Core Cells (CCs), which makes the Council an essential body in the
Klaytn ecosystem responsible for providing the underlying infrastructure. To become a Council
member, the candidate must undergo a qualification review by the Klaytn Governance Process and
must stake at least 5 million KLAY. The Klaytn Governance Council Reward is a structure for
incentivizing Council members to continue to provide a stable foundation for the Klaytn ecosystem.
Klaytn Governance Council Reward Mechanism
For every block, a Committee composed of randomly selected Council members is formed. Each
Committee has one member assigned the role of Proposer; all other Committee members assume the
role of Validators. When a block is successfully created and added to the Klaytn blockchain, the
Proposer of the said block is rewarded with 100% of the block reward. The probability of a Council
member being selected a Proposer is proportional to the amount of KLAY staked by the member; that

30

is, the more KLAY a member stakes, the more likely that the member will be selected as a Proposer
and potentially claim the block reward.
As long as the minimum 5 million KLAY staking requirement is met, Klaytn Governance Council
members can freely stake or unstake his or her own KLAY. Staking information is updated every
86,400 blocks, and newly staked KLAY comes into effect two update cycles later from when the
staking is completed. Withdrawing staked KLAY requires one week of delay as to prevent malicious
members from immediately exiting.
To prevent monopolized claiming of Klaytn Governance Council Reward by small groups of highly
invested Council members, Gini coefficient may be used to adjust the effective amount of staked
KLAY. The application formula is as follows:
Adjusted staking amount = (Council M ember′s staking amount)1/1+G
Penalty for Misbehaving Council Members
A Council member may be subject to penalties for conducting misbehaviours defined below. In the
future, more penalty rules can be established and refined through the Klaytn Governance Process.
●

●

Causing Safety Failure:
○ A Council member selected as Proposer creates more than one block in the same
height
○ A Council member selected as Proposer intentionally omits certain transactions
Causing Liveness Failure:
○ A Council member selected as Proposer fails to create a valid block
○ A Council member selected as Validator fails to validate the block proposed by the
Proposer

Proof of Contribution
Klaytn’s token economy depends on economic entities to spontaneously engage in economic
activities, creating value and exchanging them with each other in the market. Such activities
collectively build up an economy of circulating wealth that drives economic growth of the entire
ecosystem. Klaytn incentivizes and stimulates participants in its economy by evaluating their
contributions and compensating them via a transparent evaluation mechanism called Proof of
Contribution (PoC).
Proof of Contribution is designed to compensate all participants in the Klaytn token economy that
makes meaningful contributions. However, currently, PoC primarily focuses on two types of economic
entities: service providers (providing blockchain application services to end-users) and end-users
(consumers of service provider’s offerings).
Service Providers
In order to achieve mass adoption of blockchain technology, it is important to implement and leverage
widely popular, massive blockchain applications - or ​Killer BApps​ - to create a solid foundation of
end-users who discover and enjoy value from such apps in their daily lives. Service providers play a
key role in Klaytn economy as entities on the supply-side; they not only create supply of services to
satisfy end-users, but they also serve as channels of new user acquisition and as anchors of user
engagement. Acknowledging their contributions, Klaytn is designing PoC as an incentivizing

31

mechanism for service providers to effortlessly onboard the Klaytn platform and enjoy sustained
support as they continue to grow in its ecosystem.
End-Users
Extended imbalance between supply and demand makes economies unsustainable, an observation
which places end-users on a key position within Klaytn token economy. End-users are the
fundamental driving force behind economic growth as the primary demand-side entities, creating
valuable market signals by carefully selecting and using services and sharing reviews with each other.
Recognizing the value of end-users, Klaytn is reviewing designs to make PoC an incentivizing
mechanism for their contributions to growing the Klaytn ecosystem.
Proof of Contribution Reward Mechanism
PoC reward payment must be preceded by thorough evaluations of participants’ economic activities
and their impacts on Klaytn token economy in order to avoid abusing by malicious actors. The
specifics of incentives rewarded are subject to change as they are governed by decisions made
through the Klaytn Governance Process, and will reflect circumstantial dynamics determined by
Klaytn’s strategic directions in the future. For detailed information on the operation schedule, please
refer to Klaytn Docs (​https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/token_economy​).

Klaytn Improvement Reserve
As technology continues to improve and the needs of users change over time, our platform must have
the ability to quickly adapt to any new circumstance that arises.​ ​To respond to such changes, we must
not only work on services, but also undergo various activities to maintain Klaytn’s ecosystem. For
instance, research and development for better technology, or projects that contribute to the overall
growth of the ecosystem may be part of these activities.
These activities are necessary for Klaytn to progress continuously. Therefore, the Klaytn Improvement
Reserve (KIR) will be managed on the platform for the investment and research on the Klaytn
ecosystem.
The spending necessary to set up the ecosystem can be categorized as following.
●
●
●
●

Platform: Support for infrastructure, research and development, and the creation of a durable
protocol
Tools: Create a better development environment to enhance developer experience
Community: Create programs to encourage participation in Klaytn’s ecosystem (community
events, meetups, hackathons, etc.)
Others

KIR proposals can be created by any participant in Klaytn’s ecosystem. KIR spending proposals will
be processed per KIR Governance Process.

32

5. Klaytn Governance
Overview
Klaytn Governance Council : Co-governed by Klaytn Contributors
Klaytn believes that its contributors who build and grow the platform with their interests aligned with
the platform’s long-term development plans are the most qualified entities to undertake Klaytn
governance. Service providers who support mass adoption by delivering new services to Klaytn,
Ecosystem builders who introduce and promote Klaytn to the world, or contributors of any other kinds,
are potential members of Klaytn Governance Council. In other words, Klaytn Governance Council is
the governing body that will generate long-term growth of Klaytn.
Bootstrapping
To make the platform trustworthy in its initial stages, only trusted entities are considered as potential
Klaytn Governance Council members. This is designed to improve the protocol in a rapid manner for
the development and stabilization phase.

Governance Topics
There are three categories of agenda for Klaytn governance:
●

●

●

Technology
○ Matters related to the technical update of the platform. Here the issues on the
blockchain’s basic structure (e.g., Account Structure), new features (e.g., L2 solution),
or software update schedule are included.
Economy
○ The additional issuance of KLAY and its distribution structure, change in transaction
fees, changes in Proof-of-Contribution service evaluation methods, Klaytn
Improvement Reserve spending approval, and more issues are included in this
category.
Governing Rule
○ The governance subjects and processes, as well as the rules for the responsibilities
and rights of governing bodies, are included in this category.

Governance Process
Klaytn principally aims for the governance process to occur within the protocol (on-chain). Through
this process, the votes will be recorded on the blockchain, and the results will be carried out following
the vote. As the platform grows, more matters will be handled through on-chain governance.
General Governance Process
The governance process is operated per the following order: proposal introduction, statement of
opinion submitted by advisors, voting by council members, and various follow-up procedures
depending on the result of the vote.

33

Those who have the right to introduce proposals can make sure each proposal is voted on by
introducing it. Once the proposal is introduced, the advisors must conduct expert analysis on the
proposal and submit a statement of opinion with their results.
The Klaytn Governance Council members have the right to vote on the introduced proposal and will
reference the advisors’ statement of opinion to vote on what they believe to be the best option. If the
number of votes passes the threshold, the proposal will pass; if not, the proposal will be dismissed.
The follow-up measures for an approved proposal will be led by the chairman, and the chairman has
the responsibility to carry out all proposals that have been passed by the council within his or her
term. Specific proposal votes and follow-up measures follow the procedures outlined below.
●

●

●

Core Update
○ These are proposals that suggest updates to Klaytn’s core code. The vote takes
place online. However, even if the code update is passed, software update must take
place on a set date for this code to be implemented. As such, the software update will
also be proposed, and if it is passed, the core update will take place on the set
schedule of software update.
Parameter Change
○ This concerns proposals that will be applied on the blockchain without any code
updates. Currently, matters such as gas price, block reward amount, block reward
distribution ratio, voting period, number of committee members, and more can be
decided without code updates. The proposer may initiate the voting process, and the
vote will take place on-chain during a predetermined voting period. Each voter’s
choice will be saved in the block header, and the vote will automatically be closed
once the voting period is over. Once the same length of time as the voting period
passes after the vote, the decision will be automatically implemented to the platform.
Therefore, no specific follow-up procedure is necessary.
Standard Proposal
○ This concerns proposals that request the approval of new standards for Klaytn, and
the vote takes place online. As there is nothing to be changed in the platform, an
approved proposal will only see an official announcement that Klaytn has officially
approved a standard change.

Klaytn Improvement Reserve Governance Process
Unlike usual governance processes, the KIR governance process takes a series of steps composed
of introduction of a proposal, spending approval, and follow-up procedures to implement an approved
proposal.
KIR’s proposal introduction methods are the following two.
1. The financial commission, which votes on Klaytn’s financial issues and is composed of the
finance commission members, can introduce a new proposal.
2. A proposal passed by the House of Representatives, a system that evaluates different
proposals through the votes of all users, is automatically introduced as a new proposal.
The KIR’s final spending proposal will be determined through the votes of the Klaytn Financial
Commision members. The goal is to automatically implement approved proposals on-chain as soon
as it is passed, but in the early days following Klaytn’s launch, this process may be handled manually.

34

Duties and Rights of the Governing Body
Duties
Klaytn Governance Council are required to actively participate in Klaytn Governance Process and
vote for the long-term growth of Klaytn.
Voting Rights
Each of the Klaytn Governance Council members can cast one vote. This was decided as it is
important to make sure one body cannot hold monopolistic power over Klaytn. However, the number
of votes each council member has may increase later on depending on their level of contribution to
the platform and governance structure as well as on their amount of staked KLAY. Each governance
council member will have their number of votes determined using the following formula. The maximum
value that can be given by the following formula is capped at two, and thus each governance council
member’s number of votes will be a real number between one and two.
1 + α * f (governance contribution) + (1 − α) * g (staking amount), where 0 ≤ a ≤ 1
governance contribution​ may be calculated using the number of new proposals introduced and
whether the proposals were passed, voting participation rate for all proposals, etc.

35

6. Roadmap
Klaytn is designed to center users and BApps. The roadmap is planned to realize it step by step as
below.

1) 2019: Buildup Infrastructures
Focusing on Base Components (Klaytn & Toolkits)
●
●

●

Klaytn’s most important mission is providing an intuitive development environment and
friendly end-user experience.
Each component of Klaytn architecture will be improved for stability such as Block sync,
storage layer improvement. The research of consensus algorithm, multi-VM and cryptography
will be started for long-term development. In order to maximize a performance of Klaytn and
secure a data privacy, Service Chain can be the option for BApp partners.
The toolkits are supported to build BApps conveniently including BApp listing and data
analytic tool with rich tutorials and documents

Discovering Killer BApps
●

With +30 BApp service partners, Klaytn ecosystem will be enriched by embracing various
industry domains including games, entertainment, healthcare, finance, etc. We strongly
believe that some of our BApps achieve great success through massive user adoption.

2) 2020: Buildup User Base
Data-Driven Upgrade for Klaytn Scalability & Compatibility
●

Once being launched, Klaytn will be updated focusing on three challenges; Scalability,
Stability and Interoperability. The features and direction are determined by user requirements
and data extracted from BApps. The specific items to develop have block archiving,
decentralized storage, mobile SDKs, etc.

Expanding User Base via BApps
●

The activity of encouraging BApp providers such as community building, Proof of Contribution
reserve and Klaytn Improvement Reserve will be conducted to expanding user bases.

3) 2021: Klaytn World
Klaytn to reach mainstream with performance, security, and productivity on-par with the
traditional internet
●

Klaytn tackles down three challenges in order to make Blockchain easier. The users will be
able to use Klaytn without noticing it is a blockchain technology. In the meantime, the
interchain solution should be considered to bring seamless blockchain experience amongst
different type of platforms.

36

To support building BApps incl.:
BApp Listing

DX
Toolkits

Data Analytics Tool
Rich Tutorials & Docs

To make improvements on stability and
to maximize performance:

Klaytn
Platform

To execute data-driven upgrades of
Scalability & compatibility:

Block Sync

Block Archiving

Storage Layer Improvement

Decentralized Storage

Consensus Algorithrm

Mobile SDKs

To provide seamless blockchain experience amongst different platforms:
Interchain Solution

Multi-VM
Cryptography
Servicechain

Discovering Killer BApps

Expanding User-base via BApps

Games, healthcare, finance, etc.

PoC, KIR, etc.

Ecosystem

2019

Infra Buildup

2020

Build Users Up

2021

Klaytn World

Risks and Disclaimers
By accessing the information set forth in this document or any part hereof, you represent and warrant
to Klaytn that you unconditionally and irrevocably accept and agree with the following:

No Viewing in a Restricted Territory
It may not be lawful for individuals or certain categories of individuals in certain jurisdictions, to view
this document. Individuals who wish to view this document must first confirm they are not subject to
any laws or regulations that prohibits or restricts them from viewing this document.
In particular, unless permitted by the applicable laws and regulations, any offering of the tokens
mentioned in this document (the “Tokens”) should not be made, nor any documents should not be
sent, directly or indirectly, in or into, countries where participating in the sale of the Tokens is
prohibited. For avoidance of doubt, it is not intended that any offering of the Tokens is being made in
the People’s Republic of China or the United States. Klaytn shall not be responsible for individuals
who access this document from territories whose laws or regulations prohibit such access of this document or where any part of the document may be illegal. Such individuals do so at
their own risk.

Information Only
All information is provided without any warranties of any kind and Klaytn, its employees, officers
and/or advisors make no representations and disclaim all express and implied warranties and
conditions of any kind and each of Klaytn, its employees, officers and/or professional advisors
assume no responsibility or liability to you or any third party for the consequence of reliance on such
information, errors or omissions in such information or any action resulting therefrom.
The information contained on this document may contain statements that are deemed to be
“forward-looking statements”, which are prospective in nature and are not statements of historic facts.
Some of these statements can be identified by forward-looking terms such as “aim”, “target”,
“anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “if”, “intend”, “may”, “plan”, “possible”, “probable”,
“project”, “should”, “would”, “will” or other similar terms. However, these terms are not exhaustive.
Forward-looking statements inherently contain risks and uncertainties as they relate to events or
circumstances in the future. Therefore, the information, opinions and forward- looking statements,
including estimates and projections, in this document in respect of the anticipated roadmaps,
development and projected terms and performance of the relevant entities, are selective and subject
to updating, expansion, revision, independent verification and amendment.
Klaytn is not making any representation or warranty or undertaking, including those in relation to the
truth, accuracy and completeness of any of the information set out in this paper. Klaytn also expressly
disclaims any obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking
statements except to the extent required by law and neither Klaytn, its employees, officers or
professional advisors make any assurance, representation or guarantee that any event referred to in a
forward-looking statement will actually occur. Whilst Klaytn intends to fulfil all the goals set out in this
document, in case of unforeseen circumstances, the goals may change or may not be achieved
without any notice to you.

38

No Offer
This document is for information purposes only and does not constitute or form, and not intended to
be, an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, subscribe for, underwrite or purchase any form of
investment or securities or other financial instruments, nor shall it or any part of it form the basis of, or
be relied upon, in any way in connection with any contract or investment decision relating to the same.

No Advice
None of the contents of this document constitutes legal, financial, tax or other advice. You must
conduct your own due diligence and ensure you comply with all local laws regarding cryptocurrency,
tax, securities and other regulations in your jurisdiction. We encourage you to consult with the relevant
professional advisors independently.

No Agreement
This document shall not be relied on to enter into any contract or to form basis of any investment
decision. Any agreement(s) between Klaytn and you are to be governed by a separate document
(“Sale Document”). In the event of any inconsistency between this document and the Sale Document,
the respective Sale Document shall prevail.

Regulatory Risks
The regulatory status of cryptographic tokens, including any digital currency, digital assets and
blockchain applications is unclear or unsettled in many jurisdictions. The publication and
dissemination of this document do not imply that any relevant laws, regulations and rules have been
complied with. No regulatory authority has examined or approved this document. Where any relevant
governmental authority makes changes to existing laws, regulations and/or rules, or where financial
institutions make certain commercial decisions, it may have a material adverse effect and/ or impair
the ability of any relevant entity referred to in the document to function or operate as intended, or at
all.

Other Disclaimers
This document is private and contains information about Klaytn, but it does not represent the entire
content of Klaytn. The content of this document is subject to change in accordance with changes in
the relevant laws and regulations, business situation and industry outlook, as well as the judgement of
the management team. There may be changes in political, social, economic and stock or
cryptocurrency market conditions and/or that there is no or little acceptance/adoption of the relevant
Blockchain system and/or Tokens, such that the relevant Blockchain system and/or the Tokens
become no longer commercially viable. Where references have been made to third-party websites or
sources of information, we may not have sought further verification as to the accuracy, completeness,
or timeliness of the information referred to therein, and no warranties whatsoever are made as to the
same.

39

