W H I T E PA P E R
LEVOLUTION

1

Contents
Executive Summary............................................................................................................3
Introduction.........................................................................................................................4
The Current ITO Market ......................................................................................... 5
Current Contributor Behaviours ..................................................................................... 5
Not All Help Is Good Help................................................................................................. 5
You Can Succeed—And We Can Help!........................................................................... 6

Levolution Platform Description......................................................................................7
What is the Levolution Platform?..................................................................................... 7
Pre-Showcasing Audit....................................................................................................... 9
The Campaign Builder....................................................................................................... 9
Campaign Manager......................................................................................................... 10
Service Provider Marketplace......................................................................................... 11
Participant Acquisition.....................................................................................................13
Custodial Service..............................................................................................................13
Levolution Advisory Services..........................................................................................13
Intra-ITO Fund Management.......................................................................................... 15
Post-ITO Services............................................................................................................. 15

Technical Information ...................................................................................................... 16
Underlying Software........................................................................................................ 16
Levolution Platform Infrastructure................................................................................ 19

User Interaction with the Levolution Platform............................................................ 24
Project Economics And Token Sale.............................................................................. 27
The Token’s Utility ...........................................................................................................27
LEVL Token Usage on the Levolution Platform .........................................................27
The LEVL Token Technical Framework........................................................................29
Token sale..........................................................................................................................30
Token allocation...............................................................................................................32

Roadmap........................................................................................................................... 33
Team and Advisors.......................................................................................................... 34
Team...................................................................................................................................34
Advisors.............................................................................................................................38

Legal................................................................................................................................... 40

LEVOLUTION

2

IMPORTANT NOTICE
PLEASE READ THIS SECTION (AND THE WHITEPAPER GENERALLY) CAREFULLY. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL,
TAX, AND OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S) BEFORE TAKING ANY ACTION IN CONNECTION WITH THIS WHITE PAPER.
This White Paper is intended to present relevant information to potential purchasers (Purchasers) in connection with the
proposed generation and sale (together, the Token Generation) of cryptographic ERC-223 tokens with the symbol “LEVL” (Tokens)
by Levl Token Ltd, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of Cayman Islands (the “Token
Generator” or “we” or “us”), including information about the smart contract connected to the Tokens (“Token Smart Contract”)
and proposed software platform (the “Levolution Platform”) to be operated by a licensee (the “Platform Operator”).
1.1

Reliance

The Tokens are offered by the Token Generator solely on the basis of the information contained in this White Paper and the terms
and conditions applicable to the purchase of Tokens accessible at [insert hyperlink to Terms and Conditions of Sale] (the “Terms
and Conditions”). In the event of any inconsistencies between the Terms and Conditions and this White Paper, the former shall
prevail. Potential Purchasers should disregard, and not rely upon, any other information or representations given or made by
any dealer, broker or other person. No person is authorized to give any information or to make any representations in connection
with the offering of Tokens apart from those contained in this White Paper. A potential Purchaser to whom such information or
representations are given or made must not rely on them as having been authorized by the Token Generator.
Statements in this White Paper are based on the law and practice in the Cayman Islands current at the date it was issued. Those
statements are therefore subject to change should that law or practice change. Under no circumstance does the delivery of this
White Paper or the sale of Tokens imply or represent that the affairs of the Token Generator have not changed since the date of this
White Paper.
1.2

Purchaser Responsibility

Nothing contained in this White Paper is or may be relied upon as a promise, representation or undertaking as to the future
performance or policies of the Token Generator. The Token Generator does not make representations or warranties of any kind
with respect to any potential economic return from, or the tax consequences of a purchase of Tokens. Prospective Purchasers
should carefully review the whole of this White Paper. They should also consult with their legal, tax and financial advisors
in relation to the following: (i) the legal and regulatory requirements within their own countries for purchasing, holding and
disposing of Tokens; (ii) any foreign exchange restrictions to which they may be subject in their own countries in relation
to purchasing, holding or disposing of Tokens; and (iii) the legal, tax, financial and other consequences of subscribing for,
purchasing, holding or disposing of Tokens.
This White Paper is not composed in accordance with, and is not subject to, laws or regulations of any jurisdiction which are
designed to protect investors. To the maximum amount permitted by applicable law, Token Generator, Platform Operator or any
of their respective, parents, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors, officers, employees, shareholders and licensors (Token Generator
Parties) expressly disclaim and shall not be liable for any and all responsibility for any direct or any indirect, special, incidental,
consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or
profits, and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection with (i) Purchaser’s acceptance of or reliance on any information
contained in this White Paper, (ii) any error, omission or inaccuracy in any such information or (iii) any action resulting therefrom.

LEVOLUTION

3

1.3

No Registration

No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of the information set out in this White Paper. No such action has been
or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction. The publication, distribution or dissemination
of this White Paper does not imply that any such applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with.
1.4

Distribution and Selling Restrictions

The distribution of this White Paper and the offering or purchase of Tokens may be restricted in certain jurisdictions. Neither
this White Paper nor Tokens qualify for offer, sale or distribution under the laws of any jurisdiction governing the offer or sale of
securities.
The receipt of this White Paper and the accompanying Terms and Conditions does not constitute an invitation to a recipient to
subscribe for Tokens in a jurisdiction where it is necessary to comply with some registration or other legal requirement to make
that invitation, or the use of the Terms and Conditions, lawful. No such recipient may treat this White Paper or the accompanying
Terms and Conditions as an invitation to subscribe for Tokens, nor may such recipient use the Terms and Conditions. More
particularly, this White Paper does not constitute an offer or solicitation:
•

by anyone in a jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is not lawful or in which the person making such offer or
solicitation is not qualified to do so; or

•

to anyone to whom it is unlawful to make such offer or solicitation.

It is the responsibility of every person in possession of this White Paper and every person wishing to apply for Tokens to inform
himself, herself or itself of, and to observe all applicable laws and regulations of, any relevant jurisdiction.
The Token Generator may not make an invitation to the public in the Cayman Islands to subscribe for Tokens. For these purposes,
“public” has the same meaning as “public in the Islands” as defined in the Mutual Funds Law (Revised) of the Cayman Islands.
Apart from this restriction, persons resident, domiciled, established, incorporated or registered pursuant to the laws of the
Cayman Islands may beneficially own Tokens.
Any person or entity, including anyone acting on its behalf, being based, being a citizen or resident, domiciled, located or
incorporated where applicable laws prohibit or restrict distribution or dissemination of Token Generator’s materials, acquiring
Tokens or accessing the Platform including, but not limited to, the United States of America and any of its lands, People’s Republic
of China, or any other country that prohibits the sale of Tokens shall not use the Platform or acquire Tokens, otherwise this person
assumes all the responsibility arising from the continued use of the Platform and/or Tokens.

LEVOLUTION

4

Executive Summary
Entrepreneurs must overcome a variety of problems to successfully launch an Initial Token Offering (“ITO”).
Those with great ideas often face high entry barriers when launching an ITO. Legal regulations, hostile
business environments, resource shortages, and a lack of cryptocurrency market experience all prevent
great ideas from reaching the public. Finding quality third-party service providers to overcome these barriers
is often a war, in and of itself. Putting all the puzzle pieces together may prove difficult, but it can be and has
been done.
The general public has become increasingly skeptical of ITOs, given the widespread nature of projects which,
for one reason or another, never come to fruition. Even where ITO creators bear feasible and successful
projects, they still have trouble finding and building qualified and effective teams.
We strongly believe that ITOs are not just about selling tokens; rather, we aim to offer a variety of resources—
skills, knowledge, tools and a vast network of connections—with a true virtual incubator and a strategic
outlook geared towards efficiency and effectiveness. This view-inspired social incubation will serve as
Levolution’s bedrock.
Levolution will marry the latest blockchain technology with a groundbreaking ITO platform (the “Levolution
Platform”) to aid blockchain startup companies in breaking through these barriers. Relying on social
incubation and the Platform Operator’s core internal competencies, the Levolution Platform aims to help
companies break through these barriers by sourcing innovative strategies from community members and
ITO participants. The platform will also feature post-ITO services for entrepreneurs geared towards deriving
optimal value from funds raised. Finally, we will utilize our global network of sales-based relationships to
effectively stimulate the sales of tokens for offerings showcased on our platform.
The LEVL Token, which is built on the Ethereum blockchain,1 will revolutionize the way ITOs are launched by
providing a user-friendly, comprehensive, and interactive platform. The Levolution Platform will be opened
only to utility token ITOs. ITOs that want to be showcased on the platform will be required to complete a KYC
process, providing background information and legal opinions regarding their utility prior to being accepted
to and showcased on the platform. Platform users will be able to use their LEVL tokens to participate in
promising ITOs showcased on the Levolution Platform.
The Levolution Platform will be operated by Levolution Operations, a company incorporated under the laws
of Antigua.
1

Ethereum is an open blockchain platform that lets anyone build and use decentralized applications that run on blockchain technology.” Ethereum Homestead, What is Ethereum?, http://ethdocs.org/en/latest/introduction/what-is-ethereum.html (2016).

LEVOLUTION

5

Introduction
There has never been a busier time for cryptocurrency.

ITOs have become more common every
TOTAL PARTICIPATION IN ITO

year. 2014 saw only two ITOs, raising a total
of $16,032,802. Both of those numbers were

$20 bil

eclipsed in 2017, which saw 875 ITOs completed

$18 bil

and $6,213,002,958 raised. And 2018 promises

$16 bil

to be the biggest year of all by its end. Based on
the most recent research report published by

$14 bil
$12 bil
$10 bil

ITO Rating, the size of the ITO market has more

$8 bil

than doubled in the last year. ITOs in the second

$6 bil

quarter of 2018 were able to raise almost $8.5

$4 bil

billion, compared to just over $3.3 billion raised
in the first quarter of 2018.

$2 bil
$0
2016

2017

2018

ITO STATISTICS (2016-2018)
$7 bil

160

Despite the market’s success, individual

$6 bil

140

companies need to know the risk before

120

throwing their hats in the ring. There are

100

various challenges that await you; if you can

$5 bil
$4 bil

80
$3 bil

60

$2 bil

40

$1 bil

put in the time to prepare and find the right
support, these challenges won’t be able to
overturn you.

20
0

LEVOLUTION

01
7
ay
20
17
Ju
l2
01
7
Se
pt
20
No 17
v2
01
7
Ja
n
20
18
M
ar
20
18
M
ay
20
18

ar
2

M

Total Participation

M

6

17

Ja
n

20

6

01

01

No

v2

16

20

pt
2

Ju
l

Se

6

16

01

20

ay

M

ar
2

M

Ja
n

20

16

$0

Number of ITOs

6

The Current ITO Market
While ITOs are being launched in greater numbers every year, they aren’t nearly as easy to execute as they
once were. And while the number of successful ITOs has increased, so too has the number of failed ITOs. For
example, 2017 may have seen over $6 billion raised, but 284 ITOs failed to raise a single penny. According
to ITO Rating, the percentage of failed ITOs in 2018 rose from 50% in the first quarter to 55% in the second
quarter. Roughly 50% of announced ITO projects were not able to sell more than $100,000 USD.
Even if an ITO succeeds in selling its cryptocurrency, that’s no guarantee that the overall project will succeed.
Many have sold cryptocurrencies just to be thrown off by sudden downturns in the crypto market. The
volatility of the market means that while others haven’t necessarily failed, they have suffered a loss in dollar
value. And many companies simply do not have the infrastructure in place to support their cryptocurrency
and implement their projects.

Current Contributor Behaviors
Retail participants are understandably skeptical of ITOs. And it isn’t just the threat of failure that’s driving
them off—it’s the threat of being taken advantage of. While the decentralized nature of ITOs provide many
benefits, human nature and greed have also reared their ugly heads in this industry to take advantage of ITO
participants. Proper due diligence in now a necessity.

Not All Help Is Good Help
You are passionate about your offering—and there are those who see your passion as an opportunity. While
most scams target ITO participants, some are targeted at the ITO creators themselves. And they often look
like people and agencies who are just trying to help.				
For example, while preparing for an ITO, creators will wisely reach out to experts for advice about how to
ensure a successful launch. But not all agencies are reliable. Many marketing agencies claim to provide ITOgeared services but have been accused of abusive and oppressive practices, including selling overpriced
promotional packages, providing terrible customer service to their clients, issuing fake ratings, and failing to
provide access to their team’s contact information.					
Another annoyance teams may face is fake or heavily exaggerated “crypto experts” who claim to be highly
skilled in blockchain technology and cryptocurrency but in reality provide advice based on non credible
and unreliable sources. These individuals often corrupt the ITO community by providing fake ratings for the
incentives that they receive, and regularly charge tremendous fees for inadequate consultation services.
LEVOLUTION

7

There are also problems when it comes to the legal service providers associated with an ITO. Increasingly
complex legal regulations prevent ITOs from being fully realized, as they often get bogged down navigating
murky legalities without proper legal counsel. These law firms often take advantage of the unclear
regulations to charge extremly high prices to create structures that are not only not needed but also harm
sometimes the creators.

You Can Succeed—And We Can Help!
A successful ITO is a challenge, one that Levolution is prepared to help you face. Yes, you’ll have to navigate
an increasingly saturated market, deal with contributors wary of fraud, and turn away unqualified or illintentioned advisors, but all of that is within your power. And the Levolution Platform will be there to give
you the boost you need.
Understanding the difficulties ITO creators face, the Levolution Platform aims to help you develop, market,
launch, and optimize your projects before, during, and after the ITO. With an all-in-one platform, even the
most inexperienced ITO creator will be able to create smart contracts,retain experienced, reputable service
providers who will help make their campaigns a success, and gain access to a previously untapped network
of contributors.

LEVOLUTION

8

Levolution Platform Description
What is the Levolution Platform?

LEVOLUTION

9

The Levolution platform is an innovative solution that will attack various barriers and shortcomings inherent
in current utility token offerings. We believe that utility token offerings, when they fit well into a certain
project’s objective, present an incredible fundraising vehicle that has the ability to break down the ofteninsurmountable fundraising wall preventing entrepreneurs from launching their projects. However, the
mechanism is still out of reach for those who are not well versed in the world of cryptocurrency and token
offerings.
The Levolution Platform will help those hoping to harness the potential of token offerings--regardless of
experience--to create, develop, market, launch, and optimize their project. We aim to safeguard against
fraudsters, criminals, and unscrupulous projects. In order to be featured on the Levolution platform, projects
will be required to meet our internal know your customer (“KYC”), anti-money laundering (“AML”) and
due diligence process, including providing a legal opinion regarding token utility. The Levolution Platform
offers ITO creators the ability to able to create smart contracts and provides a token generation tool; it also
facilitates the retention of experienced, reputable service providers. Paired with access to our robust sales
network, a custodial service that will protect the tokens from market fluctuations, and a variety of post-ITO
services, The Levolution Platform will be dedicated to ensuring the long-term success of ITO projects.
The LEVL token will play several roles within the platform:
•

access and use services on the platform

•

pay for provider services

•

reward collaborations

•

contribute in ITO projects

LEVOLUTION

10

Pre-Showcasing Audit
Considering the prevalence of scams within the token offering space, The Levolution Platform will take
great steps to ensure, as best as possible, that the projects it showcases are feasible. In addition to requiring
provision of a legal opinion regarding token utility prior to coming onto the Levolution Platform, Levolution
will audit a project including as to security, programming and marketing to assess project feasibility.
By performing this extensive audit, the Platform Operator aims to select the best ITO projects and protects
contributors from bad projects. In addition of protecting contributors, this audit will be a proof of the
veracity of the projects

The Campaign Builder
The Levolution Platform will include a user-friendly a campaign builder aimed at simplifying and optimizing
campaign architecture, thereby affording entrepreneurs who have little or no experience in the crypto
market the best framework for creating a successful token offering. After completing a rigorous vetting
process, project founders will complete and submit a form detailing relevant information regarding their
project, such as:
•

an exhaustive product description;

•

notation and biographies of team members;

•

social media links;

•

video material;

•

smart contract generation capabilities;

•

wallet provisions;

•

token generation opportunities; and

•

service provider choices that fit a variety of budgets and expertise.

The campaign builder of the Levolution Platform will have the ability to generate smart contracts employing
Ethereum blockchain technology. These smart contracts will gather the data and settings of token offerings,
such as their full name, abbreviation, price in Ethereum, total number of tokens, offering commencement
and culmination dates, financial goals, and bonuses.
The campaign builder will allow the project team to collaborate and contract with approved service
providers and advisors directly through the platform saving tremendous amounts of time.
LEVOLUTION

11

Campaign Manager
The campaign manager allows project
creators to oversee all the details of their
campaign. The dashboard will include all
details and data necessary to conduct a
successful campaign and will include the
ability to track ITO progress and monitor
the transaction history.
The campaign manager uses a custom
blockchain communication service for
interacting with the platform and token
smart contracts. The implementation of
the service uses the Web3 standard which
is an interface which allows interacting
with a local or remote Ethereum
blockchain node using a HTTP or IPC
connection. A unique caching system also
ensures always-on and quick retrieval of
results from blockchain operations even if
delays occur.

LEVOLUTION

12

Service Provider Marketplace
We are aware of how many untrustworthy service providers are advertising in this space, and how hard it is
to find quality consultants. The Levolution Platform’s database of service providers will help project creators
find and hire quality organizations and individuals by showcasing reviews and ratings provided by actual
users who have retained those service providers in the past. Project creators can access the provider list,
filter providers based on service, siphon through reviews, seek community input, and choose a trustworthy
service provider who fits their needs.

Project
Creator
LEVL Tokens

Smart
Contract

Levolution Platform

Soft Cap

LEVL Tokens

Service

Service

Service

After a project creator has identified the service providers they want to hire, there will be two different ways
to contract a service provider: paying upfront for services defined, or some providers may negotiate with
project creators to be paid a percentage of the tokens sold.
The Levolution Platform will facilitate the creation of a smart contract between the applicable parties. To
ensure the negotiated prices, fees, and delivery of services between a service provider and campaign owner,
a separate smart contract interacts with the main platform contract. Due to the nature of smart contracts,
payments between campaign owner and service provider can be triggered if a particular service goal is
completed, without the interaction of a third party, offering unprecedented levels of transparency into the
entire process. Payment will only be issued if the project meets its soft cap or the agreed upon conditions. In
many cases, contracted work completion will be subjective or span over a period of time. When this occurs,
the platform can easily create numerous smart contracts according to a schedule of values that are activated
by a multi-sig approval process. In this case, the Levolution Platform team will act as arbitrator and hold the
odd key.
After working with a service provider, project creators will be required to rate and review that company or
individual, ensuring that all reviews come from verified users.

LEVOLUTION

13

Different Service Provider Categories
•

Marketing

•

Promotion

•

Legal

•

Programming

Verified Providers only
In order to ensure the integrity the service provider database, service providers will be required to undergo a
third-party KYC process.				
In addition to hard, traditional KYC due diligence, the Levolution Platform will provide reviews of service
providers based on their past experiences with them. After working with a service provider, project creators
will be required to leave ratings and reviews, guaranteeing that reviews are as accurate and reliable as
possible. Project creators will also be able to find top quality services at a discount when they use LEVL
tokens, but other currencies are also accepted.

Reputation System for Service Providers
The The Levolution Platform campaign web application will provide a listing page of accredited service
providers to campaign owners, alongside indicators of their service rating score and a link to more detailed
reviews.
Campaign owners who have established a service agreement with a service provider in the past are able to
review and rate the service after the agreement has been settled. After selecting a settled service agreement
from the campaign web application dashboard, the campaign owner is required to provide a review and a
rating. Once the review has been submitted, the campaign web application stores it alongside the service
rating score for the service provider in a database.
New users looking out for service providers on the listing page will see up-to-date rating scores based on
the newly calculated average score and are able to browse through the past ratings. This ensures campaign
owners choose from the best available offering and service providers will try to achieve a high scoring by
providing their best service.

LEVOLUTION

14

Participant Acquisition
One of the most unique aspects of the Levolution Platform is how it leverages its participant acquisition
relationships, as failure to obtain adequate participation is one of the biggest token offering stumbling
blocks. The Levolution Platform plans to maintain and develop relationships with a vast network of
sales teams situated throughout the globe in token offering friendly jurisdictions, such as the United
Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland and Austria, with access to participants to whom cryptocurrency projects
are attractive. Often, these sales teams will be able to reach a whole new pool of potential participants,
including those who otherwise would not be exposed to token offerings. The Levolution Platform will
leverage these relationships in order to aid projects on its platform in optimizing their pre-sale, pre-token
offering, and token offering stages.

Custodial Service
Market fluctuations concurrent with the token sale creates a major issue in that the cryptocurrency used to
purchase tokens may fluctuate drastically throughout the pre-sale, pre-token offering and token offering
periods.
This can end in a disaster for project creators as they set funding goals to fulfill the vision of the project,
and if those raised funds are soared by market volatility it may cause the failure of the project before even
starting.
The Levolution Platform will offer an optional innovative solution to this risk in form of a custodial
service. Through it, project creators can protect their funds against market volatility, giving extra trust to
contributors as they can be assured that market volatility will not affect collected funds and those will be
entirely designated to the project.

Levolution Platform Advisory Services
The Levolution Platform, in addition to maintaining relationships with third party-providers of ITO-related
services, will also offer a white glove advisory service. The idea behind this is to bring the ITO process and its
benefits to the masses, and to make it accessible for those not well versed in cryptocurrency. We will advise
on the business model, technology, fundraising, marketing, and post-ICO services. We will also be partnering
with legal and accounting providers to ensure reputable services to those ends.

LEVOLUTION

15

As in fundraising for any other type of business, a well-developed business model is crucial to optimize
funding. For token offerings, key ITO features should line up with the ultimate business’ structure. To that
end, the advisory services offered by the Levolution Platform are rooted in designing blockchain-based
business models. That includes the business proposition, token strategy, the financial model, white paper
creation, and market entry, including token execution strategy and token delivery.
Token offerings should be utilized to fuel logical and sound blockchain application, and the bedrock of solid
token offerings include decentralization, openness, traceability and immutability. Our technology advisory
includes smart contract auditing, exchange deployment, secure wallets and key management, frontend
user interface design, security conceptualization, smart contract creation, token custody, token distribution,
token creation, token design, and cryptoeconomics.
Marketing, as in any sales-centric pursuit, is extremely important for token offerings. The Levolution
Platform will work to address target buyers of tokens using effective narratives, and combine traditional
marketing with innovative token offering-specific public relations and social media. From a marketing
standpoint, the Levolution Platform advisory will cover traditional public relations strategies, buyer
relations, community management, international bounty systems, blockchain and cryptocurrency public
relations, implementation and execution of brand marketing, implementation and execution of performance
marketing, and roadmap-related marketing strategies.
We work with trusted legal providers who we have developed relationships with and would recommend.
Our network of experts are already well versed in blockchain technology, international corporate structure,
intellectual property, and regulatory compliance.
Finally, once the token sale is completed, it is now time to bring the project to fruition. Often, projects who
are successful in token offerings are unable to execute effectively at the post-ITO stage. Projects have to
be created and implemented, tokens must be managed, and buyers must remain informed as to progress.
The post-ITO advisory of the Levolution Platform will include financial reporting, token management,
team development, hedging solutions, marketing and product placement, and general long-term business
development.
All services will be provided through the Levolution Platform, based on creators’ needs.

LEVOLUTION

16

Intra-ITO Token Management
The nature of the Levolution Platform is that funds, once tokens are purchased, will need to sit somewhere
until the tokens paid for with those funds are issued.
Participants will contribute to an ITO campaign using cryptocurrencies, including the LEVL token which gives
participants access to exclusive features. However, the cryptocurrency will not be released to the project
until the project’s soft cap is reached. During that period, the funds paid will be held in escrow. Should the
soft cap threshold not be reached, the Levolution Platform will return all funds contributed to participants.

Post-ITO Services
Once a successful token offering is completed, the project will have the resources for execution and will
need to be effectively executed. Often, project creators have incredible ideas but have no management
experience, making them ineffective at the post-ITO stage. In order to encourage post-ITO success, the
Levolution Platform will offer post-ITO services including:
•

market making; If there is no market of products or services to use a token there is no liquidity
either, and the project is doomed to failure. The Levolution Platform can help through market
making to build a healthy crypto-ecosystem around your token by providing liquidity, avoiding
short-term volatility and allowing instant transactions for traders.

•

team building, including management, sales, developers, legal, accounting and marketing;

•

token management;

•

token systems, including code auditing, security, exchange listing, lock ups, and team tokens; and

•

community management, including marketing, social media, roadmaps, releases, quality control,
and quality assurance.

LEVOLUTION

17

Technical Information
Underlying Software
Technology Core Engine

As an innovative platform solution for token offerings, we are determined that blockchain-based smart
contracts, in combination with state-of-the-art software, will provide a future-proof, long-term solution for
the core engine of The Levolution Platform. The blockchain allows us to provide a secure, transparent, and
trustworthy platform which supports our need for complex, multi-party agreements needed to transfer
funds using smart contracts.
Due to the distributed and immutable state of the blockchain data, our users can be assured that their data
is safe, payment operations are transparent and do not involve third-party control, and that identities are
verified and managed securely, resulting in an optimized ITO creation experience.

LEVOLUTION

18

All The Levolution Platform smart contracts are being developed using the Ethereum Solidity programming
language. The blockchain layer involves various smart contracts based on the Ethereum blockchain that
map important business logic. Since we are simplifying and decreasing the amount of frivolous code by
abstracting the blockchain application code into reusable frameworks and components, we are able to
target our operating system and create blockchain agnostic encapsulation to allow an easier transition into
any evolving and emerging blockchain technology innovations.
The core engine we have developed consists of a platform layer which bundles all non-blockchain
application code and all user facing web technology. The platform layer consists of various web applications
and microservices that will allow user and service interaction and integrations. They interact with the
blockchain smart contracts using custom developed client libraries which abstract the ABI (Application
Binary Interface) of a smart contract into a object model. This allows the core engine platform code to
interact with the blockchain logic without the need for tight coupling of both layers. Furthermore, we choose
to use an asynchronous event based model for the communication between the layers of the core engine to
ensure our user-facing applications are not blocked by possible processing time of the blockchain logic.
The following list describes some the smart contracts to be developed:
Campaign: This contract manages owners, the crowdsale process, and manages interaction with the
other smart contracts.
TokenFactory: This contract allows the dynamic creation of new token contracts which are used by the
campaigns on the blockchain. This contracts applies the common Factory programming pattern to allow
it to create other smart contracts on the blockchain.
This is a generalized example written in Solidity of a factory pattern applied to a smart contract to
showcase dynamic token creation:

LEVOLUTION

19

CampaignToken: This contract, which is instantiated by the TokenFactory contract, is deployed as an
ERC-20 compatible token so campaigns are in-line with the current industry standard, allowing for quick
integration to various crypto exchanges during the token listing process.
ServiceAgreement: An important part of the platform are the contractual agreement between service
providers and campaign owners on the platform. This contract manages the delivery of services in
exchange for payment between a service provider and campaign owner, as well as ensuring the payment
of any platform fees.
FundManager: This contract controls the storage of received campaign funds and the collection of
the facilitator fee. Funds raised by successful campaigns are moved into their unique wallets and are
controlled by the smart contract automatically. Platform employees do not have access to user wallets;
this approach for using smart contracts for the fund flow within the core engine protects all parties from
fraud.
RewardIssuer: This contract provides helper logic which rewards users with funds automatically
upon fulfilling certain requirements set during adding a new reward to the contract. It also manages
requirement goals and thus allows not only to operate for the The Levolution Platform review, rating,
and service needs, but is flexible enough to allow other use-cases in the future.

LEVOLUTION

20

Levolution Platform Infrastructure
The following figure shows the layers to be developed to run the core engine applications of the The
Levolution Platform.

Docker Containers:

LEVOLUTION

21

After various technological innovations that have been created to virtualize software and comply with
changing requirements, containerization has evolved as the state-of-the-art approach which allows us to
create modern and sustainable infrastructure.
The advantages of utilizing a Docker container solution allows for rapid application deployment; selfcontained nodes ensure load balancing and high scalability as further instances of an application can easily
be spawned dynamically during operation, securing continuing use and expansion of the The Levolution
Platform offering.
A single version controlled docker image bundles all dependencies into a single container that is
independent from the host version, platform distribution, or deployment model. Any machine running
Docker is able to execute the container without compatibility issues. Thus, this model allows the The
Levolution Platform to be hosted with our own On-Premise server infrastructure or in the cloud for almost
unlimited scalability. Our choice as the operating system is Linux, which offers the best experience for
running such an architecture.
Furthermore, Docker images have a lightweight footprint thus helping in rapid delivery and reducing the
time to deploy our applications after changes. The vibrant community and products around Docker acts as
an indicator for an evaluated and proper choice of technology that a business can rely on.
Far from being implemented just with applications, the containers run additional databases, asynchronous
queues for efficient processing of various tasks in the background, modern metrics data collection and
monitoring of all operations, load balancing of browser client requests, privacy and encryption components
for user security, fast in-memory caching mechanisms, various other tools needed for development and our
continuous integration system as required by modern quality assurance standards.

LEVOLUTION

22

Application Logic:
The high standards we use in the development of the platform are based on best practice paradigms known
in the IT industry, with the main ones being “do not reinvent the wheel”, “keep it simple” and “standing on
the shoulders of giants”.
Therefore, the applications that are running in the containers will leverage on open-source web
development frameworks that allow rapid application development through scaffolding of features that
have been successfully integrated and optimized for years after having been used in millions of large
software products.
Furthermore, any features developed will be bundled into custom isolated independent frameworks,
components, and libraries to ensure efficient reuse of the technology across the platform.
Next to blockchain and smart contract abstraction frameworks, many e-Commerce workflows need to be
implemented. By using a framework like Sylius, we profit from the integration of a very powerful and yet still
fully modular framework providing everything needed without having to reinvent common practises which
user all around the world are used to in their shopping and payment experience. The flexibility of such a
framework provides enough room for customizing it for the needs of the blockchain technology.
The The Levolution Platform team is also considering contributing these frameworks back to the opensource community and is driven by an “upstream first” methodology during quality assurance.

Service Integrations:
Certain functionality the platform requires has already been implemented by external services which are run
by trusted companies and provide a level of becoming or being a standard tool.
For instance, securing user accounts requires a 2FA (2-Factor Authentication) solution which is offered by
various well established online services and thus a custom implementation is not needed.
The The Levolution Platform applications use these services to offer features like securing users wallets,
ensuring safety of authentication, providing latest market cryptocurrency exchange rates, offering many
industry standard payment gateways, conducting highest standards identity verification based on varying
KYC/AML requirements and ensuring high availability for communicating with the blockchain.

LEVOLUTION

23

Browser Frontend:

All Levolution Platform applications, which expose a user-interface, serve web content based on modern
web browser technologies while maintaining backwards compatibility with older browser generations.
We use some well established standards and technologies:
•

Precompiled and minimized assets for fast rendering

•

Responsive design frameworks to allow the user interface to intelligently adapt to the display
sizes currently used by internet users

•

W3C conform HTML5 ensures semantic markup and helps search engine discovery

•

Advanced client and server caching mechanisms

•

Modern Javascript frameworks for a better UX and faster client performance

•

Lazy-Loading for assets to reduce HTTP traffic and speed up initial load times

•

Sophisticated and mature open source application frameworks

•

REST API frameworks and swagger for rock solid and versioned API’s

•

Database abstraction and schema versioning for reliable data persistence

•

Automated unit and acceptance tests with BEHAT and Selenium

•

Advanced quality assurance via automated testing in three stages; Development, Staging,

LEVOLUTION

24

Production
•

Scripted and automated deployment techniques and continuous delivery strategies for fast
and incremental feature releases and bugfixes

•

Application monitoring for early and fast error recognition

•

Frameworks and techniques to ensure the application, database, server and client security

Platform API:
Campaign owners who want to retrieve data from their campaigns, like for instance detailed information
about their running crowdsale, can do so by using our platform API. The API is exposed using the
HTTPS protocol which ensures end-to-end encryption and uses the widespread JSON data format for
communication.
Asides campaigns, we plan to also expose payment functionality in this API.
Providing an interface to the user base opens various possibilities for creating innovative integrations,
encourages the use of the LEVL token as a payment m ethod and increases the service value of the The
Levolution Platform as a whole.

LEVOLUTION

25

User Interaction with the Levolution Platform
Participating in a campaign is a simple process for users of the The Levolution Platform, as it is similar to a
typical shopping cart experience.
After browsing the database of available campaigns and choosing one, the participant enters the participant
portal application to complete the order process of campaign tokens.
The payment of the order can be completed with discount benefits using the LEVL token, by using over 40+
major cryptocurrencies, and other major payment gateways that are planned to be integrated.
Each user role on the The Levolution Platform receives a personal wallet which is setup during registration
process of an account. Funds, as well as tokens stored in the wallet, are also available to participate in
campaigns.

A successful purchase in the portal web application triggers events within the application using an event
model with a state machine to ensure proper workflow execution. Our blockchain client framework is then
used by an event subscriber to retain funds until the campaign finishes and allocate any campaign tokens.
Once the campaign has finished, users receive the purchased campaign tokens delivered into their wallets.

LEVOLUTION

26

The following figure shows a simplified sequence diagram of an example campaign participation:

LEVOLUTION

27

•

The participation process steps described are:

•

Participant selects a campaign from the portal web application

•

Participant completes the payment and funds are sent to the Campaign Smart Contract

•

Campaign Smart Contract retains the funds and allocates campaign tokens for the participant

•

Campaign Token Smart Contract sends tokens to the Fund Manager Smart Contract

•

The campaign finishes with two conditions:
•

If the soft cap was reached, the Campaign Smart Contract
•

Triggers distribution of the retained campaign tokens held by the Fund Smart
Contract to the participant

•

Triggers payment to service providers contracted for the campaign by using the
Service Agreement Smart Contract if the service provider agreement was created
with a “payment on success” model

•

•

Retains a facilitators fee in the Fund Smart Contract

•

Distributes the remaining collected funds to the campaign owner’s wallet

If the soft cap has not been reached, the Campaign Smart Contract
•

Triggers reimbursement of funds to the participant held by the Fund Smart
Contract

•

Triggers release of the held campaign tokens

•

No facilitator fee is charged

The model is strongly event driven by using inter application events and blockchain events which are
watched by using the Blockchain Framework from a special background processor application. A high
performance queue system ensures proper execution of event handlers. This architecture and evaluated use
of technology allows the The Levolution Platform to handle the parallel processing for hundred of thousand
parallel participants and beyond.

LEVOLUTION

28

Project Economics And Token Sale
The Token’s Utility
LEVL Token is a virtual currency which will be accepted and used by the projects that are launched on the
Levolution Platform, as well as by all of its partners and service providers as compensation for their services.
As such, the LEVL Token will be used as a payment method on the Levolution Platform. The LEVL Token will
also be used to retain service providers listed within its database.

LEVL Token Usage on the Levolution Platform
The LEVL token acts as a virtual currency on the platform. Among other use-cases, it is primarily used to
pay for campaign creation and allows the purchase of campaign tokens by participants. Users get paid with
LEVL tokens for rewards and ratings. It’s also used by service providers to pay to be listed or to get paid
for services. While other payment options using Ethereum will be offered, using the LEVL token provides
discounts and benefits to users choosing to use it.
The LEVL token is a secure and reliable way
to create the demand and supply market
between users, participants, campaigns,
and service providers. The payment flow is
transparently visible to anyone on the public
Ethereum blockchain ledger and ensures
no third party is able to fiddle with this
vital element for the operation of the the
Levolution Platform.
The token is used with the smart contracts
of the blockchain layer as shown in the
following figure:

LEVOLUTION

29

Upon creating a new campaign, the Campaign Manager Contract uses the token to instantiate a new
campaign token using the Token Factory Contract.
Each contract generates events on the blockchain which are captured by the The Levolution Platform
platform blockchain abstraction framework to trigger and forward calls of follow up functions on dependent
smart contracts. Contrary to many Dapp (Decentralized Application) implementations which use the web3.
js library and act on events in the context of the user’s browser, our handlers operate in the backend of the
platform only. For instance, upon creating the campaign token, a token creation event unlocks the campaign
for the crowdsale and triggers any functionality needed for the successful operation of it with the backend.
The Service Agreement Contract then enables settlement of service delivery and payment between a
campaign owner and service provider if they choose to work together on the platform. Campaigns receiving
funds use the Fund Manager Contract to collect transactions during the crowdsale period and distribute
them, as needed, upon completion.
The Reward Issuer Contract maintains a collection of a user and a reward goal specification. If a user fulfils
the goal requirements, for instance by writing a review about a campaign, a state change is triggered on the
contract. This state change is verified by the contract and, upon success, the user is rewarded as defined
with the initially added goal specification.
All user roles involved also provide their personal external wallet addresses on the Ethereum blockchain
which is used for final payments.
The Funds Manager Contract acts like a P2P (Peer to Peer) escrow contract that holds funds and distributes
or reimburses them as needed based on campaign, service agreement, or reward conditions.
The LEVOLUTION team is also evaluating the use of a hybrid public/private blockchain architecture for
running these smart contracts that drive the business logic. This approach would include a custom protocol
and middleware for interledger synchronisation of the token between the public and private blockchain.
The benefits could bring faster contract execution, ensure more quality assurance can take place and
allows optimizing the amount of required Ethereum transaction costs which need to be paid for every state
changing function call on the smart contracts. Once the smart contracts meet the successful operation
standards we have set, a deployment on the public blockchain would take place.

LEVOLUTION

30

The LEVL Token Technical Framework
The LEVL token will be issued on the Ethereum blockchain, based under the advanced ERC-223 token
standard.
The ERC-223 standard is fully backwards compatible to ERC-20, but includes several major advantages:
•

Provides a possibility to avoid accidentally lost tokens inside contracts that are not designed to work
with sent tokens

•

Allows users to send their tokens anywhere with a single function transfer, whether the receiver is bound
by a contract or not

•

Allows contract developers to handle incoming token transactions

•

ERC-223 transfer-to-contract consumes half as much energy as ERC-20

•

Allows users to deposit tokens into a contract with a single transaction, preventing extra blockchain
bloating

•

Makes token transactions similar to Ether transactions

LEVOLUTION

31

Token sale
A total of 500,000,000 LEVL tokens will be created. According to our most recent estimations, the price of the

ICO BONUSES

LEVL token will be 0.002 ETH during the pre-sale. We will offer the following bonuses during the token sale:
Private Sale

Private Sale

Pre-ICO

Dec 1 - Dec 31

Jan 1 - Jan 15

Jan 16 - Jan 31

+50%

+35%

+20%

Token sale details:
Token Name / Symbol

LEVL

Technology

ERC-223 Ethereum

Token Type

Utility and Payment

Total Token Supply

500,000,000

Total Tokens For Sale

225,000,000

ITO Price

.002ETH

Hard Cap

465,000 ETH

Soft Cap

14,000 ETH

Payment Accepted

FIAT (USD/EUR), BTC, ETH, and 30 other major

Unsold Tokens

cryptocurrencies
Burned

ITO Start

12/01/2018

Team Lock-up and Vesting

12-Month Lock-up

1st Private Pre-Sale Round

50% Bonus (8 month lock-up)

2nd Private Pre-Sale Round

35% Bonus (6 month lock-up)

Pre ITO Round

20% Bonus (4 month lockup)

Trading Venue

Levolution Platform and Partner Exchanges

Distribution of Tokens

30 Days after ITO Closure

LEVOLUTION

32

Fund allocation
The proceedings from the sale of LEVL token will be allocated as follows:
•

40% of the funds will be used for the development, team expansion, management, and infrastructure of
the Levolution platform.

•

30% of the funds will be used in the marketing and promotion of the Levolution Platform. Our goal for
the Levolution Platform is to become the go-to platform to generate tokens, launch ITOs, and contract
all the services associated with successful fundraising campaigns. The Platform Operator will have to
engage in widespread, heavy advertising efforts of the platform, and implement marketing incentives to
attract projects and services providers.

•

20% of the funds will be dedicated to company operations and community growth, participation and
sponsoring of blockchain events, and implementation of the Levolution Platform summit

•

4% of the funds will be designated towards legal support.

•

6% of the funds will be allocated to partners.

Partners
Legal

Operations

4% 6%
20%
Marketing

30%
40%
Platform Development

LEVOLUTION

33

Token allocation
The total number of tokens created will be 500,000,000 LEVL. The token allocation will be as follows:
•

45% of tokens will be allocated in the ITO.

•

10% of tokens will be allocated towards the development of our platform

•

5% of the tokens will be allocated towards marketing, including bounty programs and airdrops.

•

20% of the tokens will be retained in reserve.

•

20% of the tokens will be allocated to team members, external advisors, and service providers.

All members of the team have a 12-month lock-up period on the sales of their tokens. Additionally, there is
a cliff period of 6-months. Only team members that stay with the company for at least 6-months receive any
token allocation at all. These measures are put in place to incentivize the long-term commitment of founders
and employees.

Team/Advisors

20%
ITO

45%
Reserve

20%

Marketing

5%

10%
Development

LEVOLUTION

34

Roadmap
Dec - 2018

Private Sale

Q4 - 2018

Create Levolution Platform Concept
Create Levolution Platform Architecture
Concept Gathering with Advisory Team
Launch Levolution Platform Blog

Jan - 2019

ITO

Q1 2019

Issue ERC20 tokens to ITO participants
List Levolution Token at Crypto Exchanges
Start Levolution Platform Development
Feedback Gathering for Platform Optimization

Q2 2019

Exclusive Access to Levolution Platform Preview
Feedback Gathering for Platform Optimization
Offering Levolution Advisory Services
First Service Partner Announcements

Q3 2019

Announce First Listed Campaigns
Launch of Android App
Launch of iOS App
Launch Levolution Platform BETA

Q4 2019

Launch Levolution Platform
Launch Complementary Service Provider Marketplace
Launch Web Based Wallet
Launch Platform API BETA
Integrate Custodial Services
Integrate Post ITO Services

Q1 2020

1st Levolution Keynote
Announce Exclusive Campaign Listings

Q2 2020

First Finished Campaign Offering
Launch of B2B Platform API

Q3 2020

2nd Levolution Keynote

Q4 2020

Reach 60% Market Share
Support All Major Currencies

LEVOLUTION

35

Team and Advisors
Team
Renato Schumacher
Director & CEO LEVL Token, CTO Levolution Platform
With almost 30 years of experience in the fields of conception, business
development, IT, Internet, Music Industry, Licenses, he contributes an important
part to the L7-ITO. He founded his first company at the age of 18 and has
successfully managed several companies and is responsible for more than 300
employees. Thus, he not only has a high level of technical know-how but also
extensive experience in personnel management.
As a teenager, he has seen the early days of the Internet and since then has
included all major technical advances in his projects. He was also able to
participate in the development of various technologies.
He is significantly involved in the design and development of the entire Level
7 ITO project and involved in all processes. He has also been responsible as an
exclusive IT consultant for the worldwide implementation of Level 7 web content,
infrastructure, and technology since the beginning. Due to his many years of
experience and cooperation with Level 7, he is able to support all areas of Level 7.

Martin Szulecki
Head of Development LEVL Token / Levolution Platform
Martin started his career working for the worldwide largest advertising companies
on many successful projects for famous brands while still finishing school, now is
a supplier for decisive unique solutions behind the Fortune 500 including valley
tech companies’ technology stacks from small to large scale; he knows how the IT
business and technology works very well.
Awarded senior IT specialist, a business owner with a broad knowledge about
software development, software architecture, software consulting with the special
twist of using state of the art technologies in this age of digitization.

LEVOLUTION

36

Konstantin Lichtenwald
Financial Advisor LEVL Token
Chief Financial Officer Levolution PlatformKonstantin possesses over ten years of
finance and accounting experience, including corporate compliance, accounting,
financial management, IPO and RTO experience. He is well versed in working in
two key financial jurisdictions - North America and German-speaking parts of
Europe. This experience allows him to bring to the table a multi-faceted, hands-on
approach to strategic management and problem-solving.
Konstantin specializes in providing corporate finance, valuation, taxation,
financial reporting, consulting and other accounting services to both small
businesses and public commodity resource companies. He also assists in many
aspects of clients’ administration, financing, and other activities. His work
experience also includes service at Ernst & Young GmbH, Germany, in its assurance
department.
Konstantin earned a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from Pforzheim
University in Germany. He holds the professional designation of Chartered
Professional Accountant (CPA, CGA) and Chartered Certified Accountant (ACCA). He
is also a member of the Chartered Professional Accountants of B.C. and Canada,
as well as a member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants of
the United Kingdom. Konstantin possesses extensive experience as a controller
and Chief Financial Officer of numerous publicly traded and private corporations
operating throughout various industries.

Christian Victor
Development LEVL Token / Levolution Platform
Christian started his IT career as an avid BBS user. From there it was only a small
step to being one of the first web developers. Freelancing for some of the largest
German digital agencies further honed and diversified his skills. Soon after his
freelance career he founded his own digital consulting company. While having
many years of experience in digital solutions, he still keeps an entrepreneurial
spirit. Currently his major field of expertise is consulting for digital transformation
and planning and management of IT projects.

LEVOLUTION

37

Selvan Saha
Business Development Europe LEVL Token / Levolution Platform
Mr. Saha is a London based financier and international property investor who
represents Level 7 Global Holdings in the UK.
A multidimensional entrepreneur with a background in finance and skilled in
technology, Selvan began his career at IBM in Management Consulting in the late
1990s. He then changed career and trained as a stockbroker in the early 2000s
eventually launching his own stock brokerage and then a derivative trading firm,
both of which he sold.
Presently Selvan presides over companies predominantly involved in finance
and property including holding the position of Chairman of former AIM-listed oil
explorer turned property developer S E Land PLC. In 2016 Selvan was appointed as
an advisor on investments to the State of Penang by the Government of Malaysia.
Educated in the UAE, Australia, and the UK, Selvan successfully completed the
Advanced Management Program at Cambridge University in 2013. Selvan is a
family man with a wife and young son. A keen traveler, Selvan travels extensively
for work and pleasure having visited over 60 countries and is looking forward to
seeing more.

Patrick Schmitt
Founder & Managing Partner Levolution Platform
Patrick attended and successfully completed business school in Germany in 2001,
and subsequently entered a family investment business in which he held various
positions with gradually increasing responsibilities. Ultimately, Patrick was
promoted to Chief Executive Officer of that business, a position he retained for
four years and in which he was in charge of the company’s operations.
In 2005, Patrick formed his own organization, which focused on providing
comprehensive consulting services to startup and other pre-IPO companies. Since
that time, Patrick has continued to develop specialized investment expertise. His
experience includes launching approximately forty companies internationally,
as well as serving as Chief Executive Officer for eight startup companies and
holding various positions within others. Patrick has also acquired and developed
specialized experience, including, but not limited to, international corporate
formation, marketing, investor relations, public relations, stock exchange
listing processes and financing. Using that knowledge, he has consulted various
companies through financing and IPO transactions, as well as built a vast network
of investors, partners, entrepreneurs and service providers operating in the
financial sector.
Leveraging the knowledge, experience, and network he developed throughout
his career, Patrick incorporated Level 7 Global Holdings Corporation in February
of 2015, and currently serves as its Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of its
Board of Directors.
LEVOLUTION

38

Alexander Sierich
Co-Director of Business Development Levolution Platform
Alexander serves as the Co-Director of Business Development. In this role, he
continuously looks for new strategic partnerships, studies and provides market
feedback, plans and coordinates expansion strategies identifies new market
trends, and coordinates and manages existing partnerships.
Alexander earned a Bachelor of Arts in Business and Marketing from the University
of Wales in 2015, where he was awarded the best entrepreneurial project in
his class. While a student, he gained valuable marketing experience within
the hospitality industry, having worked with both domestic and international
companies, including Thomas Cook.
After graduation, Alexander moved to the United States and began working in
a sales role representing Comcast, in which he aided in the acquisition of new
clients, the training of new sales agents and the cultivation of new sales teams.
Subsequently, he worked as a Talent Manager at 2BTube, a YouTube network
showcasing influencers throughout the world. At 2BTube, Alexander analyzed data
to identify trends and created influencer marketing campaigns curated towards
better connecting brands with their target audiences.

Mickael Blin
Co-Director of Business Development Levolution Platform
Mickael serves as our Co-Director of Business Development and is a blockchain
specialist. In that role, he builds the company’s brand within the blockchain
industry and utilizes his experience to continuously enhance the platform and
ensure its modernization.
Prior to joining the team, Mickael worked as a project manager for a firm in
France and as a marketing coordinator for an American company. His passion for
emerging industries, specifically blockchain, stems from his tenure as a student
at France’s Kedge Business School, at which he majored in International Business
and graduated in 2015. While a student, he made initial investments and therein
discovered his deep interest in emerging technologies. Subsequently, in 2017,
he channeled this interest towards full-time involvement in managing digital
investment portfolios and day trading. Since then, he hasn’t looked back.

LEVOLUTION

39

Advisors
Mike Templeman
CEO Foxtail Marketing
Mike Templeman is the CEO of Foxtail Marketing, a digital content marketing
firm specializing in B2B SaaS. He is passionate about tech, marketing and small
business. When not typing away at his keyboard, he can be found spending time
with his kids. He is a seasoned cryptocurrency researcher and strategist who has
helped dozens of ICOs bring their solutions to the market successfully.

Randall Lee Pires
International Chairman, Government Blockchain Association
After graduating from Georgia Tech with an engineering degree, Randall Lee Pires
spent the next 10 years working internationally, mostly in Africa. Randall started
his career as a project engineer helping to build the largest LNG plant in the world
in Angola. Afterwards Randall started his own ISP company and served internet to
thousands of users across 4 times zones in Africa, until South Sudan relapsed into
civil war. Randall has lived on 6 continents over the last decade and specializes in
developing countries, and cutting-edge technologies. He has extensive experience
and knowledge with tech startups, including blockchain software and hardware
sectors. He is also is the part of the non-profit Government Blockchain Association
as Chairman of the Board of Advisors - Chapters, and the Lead for GBA - North
America. In addition, Randall is the Chief Community Manager for the Integrated
Engineering Blockchain Consortium. Founder of Blockchain Ecosystem Advisors,
he co-leads an amazing team of over 10 blockchain specialists to be able to handle
any blockchain need or challenge.

LEVOLUTION

40

Theo Muhumuza
CEO KoinKloud - ICO and Tokenomics Expert
Theo is a Serial Entrepreneur and Investor with an expertise in Fintech and
Blockchain Projects. After graduating from Georgia state university with finance
and marketing degrees he founded his first company, Toffi real estate in 2014. He
moved to Switzerland in 2017 to be a part of the crypto valley and founded Koin
Kloud, a company that invests and advices blockchain startups.

Chris Carter
Managing Director, BEA
Chris Carter is CEO of Atlantide Capital Partners and Managing Director of
Blockchain Ecosystem Advisors. He resides in Atlanta, GA where he completed
his degree in Architecture at Georgia Tech. He has 12+ yrs experience in project
management and design. He is a serial entrepreneur and has founded several
companies and advised numerous successful companies including My Blockchain
Coach, Javvy and Aphidbyte.
Chris enjoys challenges and building winning teams inside and outside of
business. His belief is “building successful businesses is by design, not by chance.”
His motivation, perseverance and team building skills are reinforced by his 15-year
career in championship rugby. He now has the privilege of coaching the rugby
team at his Alma Mater.

Dominic Bacon
CEO - The Collective Community & Development Co.
Dominic has a varied background covering a vast area of expertise in finance,
real estate and blockchain projects. Over 12 years in an Offshore financial sector
in the Channel islands Dom then head up the local implementation of the
financial structure within Airtel -Vodafone in 2009 - 2011. Being keen in real estate
opportunities in 2012 he became Managing Director for a Real Estate company in
the Channel Islands. Whilst ongoing success with the company Dom moved part of
his attention to Blockchain technology projects and investments. He progressed
to be one of three founders of The Collective Community & Development Co
taking position of CEO. The company specialises in development and marketing in
a varied range of Blockchain projects.

LEVOLUTION

41

Disclosure Schedule
The acquisition of Tokens involves a high degree of risk. Before acquiring Tokens, it is recommended that
each Purchaser conduct its own careful examination of all relevant information and risks about the Token
Generator, Platform and Tokens and, specifically, the disclosures and risk factors set out below. If any of
the following risks actually occurs, the Platform, Tokens and Purchaser’s Tokens may be materially and
adversely affected, including the Purchaser’s Tokens being rendered worthless or unusable.
1

Disclosures Regarding This White Paper

1.1

Accuracy of information, no consent of parties referenced in White Paper

This White Paper includes market and industry information and forecasts that have been obtained from
internal surveys, reports and studies, where appropriate, as well as market research, publicly available
information and industry publications. Such surveys, reports, studies, market research, publicly available
information and publications generally state that the information that they contain has been obtained from
sources believed to be reliable, but there can be no assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of such
included information.
Save for the Token Generator and its respective directors, executive officers and employees, no person
has provided his or her consent to the inclusion of his or her name and/or other information attributed or
perceived to be attributed to such person in connection therewith in this White Paper and no representation,
warranty or undertaking is or purported to be provided as to the accuracy or completeness of such
information by such person and such persons shall not be obliged to provide any updates on the same.
Neither the Token Generator nor any of the Token Generator Parties has conducted any independent
review of the information extracted from third party sources, verified the accuracy or completeness of such
information or ascertained the underlying economic assumptions relied upon therein.
Consequently, neither Token Generator nor its directors, executive officers and employees acting on its
behalf makes any representation or warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of such information and
shall not be obliged to provide any updates on the same.
1.2

Terms used

To facilitate a better understanding of Tokens being offered for purchase by the Token Generator, and the
businesses and operations of the Token Generator, certain technical terms and abbreviations, as well as, in
certain instances, their descriptions, have been used in this White Paper. These descriptions and assigned
meanings should not be treated as being definitive of their meanings and may not correspond to standard
industry meanings or usage.
LEVOLUTION

42

Words importing the singular shall, where applicable, include the plural and vice versa and words importing
the masculine gender shall, where applicable, include the feminine and neuter genders and vice versa.
References to persons shall include corporations.
1.3

Forward looking statements

All statements, estimates and financial information contained in this White Paper, made in any press
releases or in any place accessible by the public and oral statements that may be made by Token Generator
or any Token Generator Parties that are not statements of historical fact, constitute “forward-looking
statements”. Some of these statements can be identified by forward-looking terms such as “aim”, “target”,
“anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “if”, “intend”, “may”, “plan”, “possible”, “probable”,
“project”, “should”, “would”, “will” or other similar terms. However, these terms are not the exclusive
means of identifying forward-looking statements. All statements regarding the Token Generator’s financial
position, business strategies, plans and prospects and the future prospects of the industry which the Token
Generator is in are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements, including but not limited
to statements as to the Token Generator’s revenue and profitability, prospects, future plans, other expected
industry trends and other matters discussed in this White Paper regarding Token Generator are matters that
are not historic facts, but only predictions.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which
may cause actual events or results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the estimates or
the results implied or expressed in such forward-looking statements. These factors include, amongst others:
•

changes in political, social, economic and stock or cryptocurrency market conditions, and the regulatory
environment in the countries in which the Token Generator conducts its respective businesses and
operations;

•

the risk that the Token Generator may be unable or execute or implement their respective business
strategies and future plans;

•

changes in interest rates and exchange rates of fiat currencies and cryptocurrencies;

•

changes in the anticipated growth strategies and expected internal growth of the Token Generator;

•

changes in the availability and fees payable to the Token Generator in connection with their respective
businesses and operations;

•

changes in the availability and salaries of employees who are required by the Token Generator to operate
their respective businesses and operations;

•

changes in preferences of customers of the Token Generator;

LEVOLUTION

43

•

changes in competitive conditions under which the Token Generator operate, and the ability of the
Token Generator to compete under such conditions;

•

changes in the future capital needs of the Token Generator and the availability of financing and capital to
fund such needs;

•

war or acts of international or domestic terrorism;

•

occurrences of catastrophic events, natural disasters and acts of God that affect the businesses and/or
operations of the Token Generator;

•

other factors beyond the control of the Token Generator; and

•

any risk and uncertainties associated with the Token Generator and its business and operations, Tokens,
the Token Generation and the underlying assets (each as referred to in the White Paper).

Nothing contained in this White Paper is or may be relied upon as a promise, representation or undertaking
as to the future performance or policies of the Token Generator.
Further, the Token Generator disclaims any responsibility to update any of those forward-looking statements
or publicly announce any revisions to those forward-looking statements to reflect future developments,
events or circumstances, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future.
1.4

No further information or update

No person has been or is authorized to give any information or representation not contained in this
White Paper in connection with the Token Generator and its business and operations, Tokens, the Token
Generation and the underlying assets (each as referred to in the White Paper) and, if given, such information
or representation must not be relied upon as having been authorized by or on behalf of the Token Generator.
The Token Generation (as referred to in the White Paper) shall not, under any circumstances, constitute
a continuing representation or create any suggestion or implication that there has been no change, or
development reasonably likely to involve a material change in the affairs, conditions and prospects of Token
Generator or in any statement of fact or information contained in this White Paper since the date hereof.
1.5

Restrictions on distribution and dissemination of White Paper

The distribution or dissemination of this White Paper or any part thereof may be prohibited or restricted by
the laws, regulatory requirements and rules of any jurisdiction. In the case where any restriction applies, you
are to inform yourself about, and to observe, any restrictions which are applicable to your possession of this
White Paper or such part thereof (as the case may be) at your own expense and without liability to the Token
Generator.
LEVOLUTION

44

Persons to whom a copy of this White Paper has been distributed or disseminated, provided access to or
who otherwise have the White Paper in their possession shall not circulate it to any other persons, reproduce
or otherwise distribute this White Paper or any information contained herein for any purpose whatsoever
nor permit or cause the same to occur.
1.6

Language of White Paper

This White Paper may have been prepared in multiple languages. In the event of any inconsistencies
between one version and another, the English language version shall prevail.
2.

Disclosures Regarding Tokens

Nature of Tokens
Tokens is a utility token. Tokens are digital utility tokens that afford Tokens holders to access services on
the Platform and/or execute certain functions on the Token Smart Contract in accordance with the terms of
an open-source license agreement. Tokens do not represent a loan to Token Generator nor do they provide
Purchaser with any ownership or other interest in or to Token Generator. For greater certainty, the purchase
of Tokens does not provide Purchaser with any form of ownership right or other interest in or to Token
Generator or its present or future assets and revenues, including, but not limited to, any voting, distribution,
redemption, liquidation, revenue sharing, proprietary (including all forms of intellectual property), or other
financial or legal rights.
2.2

Tokens are non-refundable

Token Generator is not obliged to provide Tokens holders with a refund for any reason, and Tokens holders
will not receive money or other compensation in lieu of a refund. Statements set out in the White Paper are
merely expressions of the Token Generator’s objectives and desired work plan to achieve those objectives.
and no promises of future performance or price are or will be made in respect to Tokens, including no
promise of inherent value, and no guarantee that Tokens will hold any particular value.
2.3

Tokens are provided on an “as is” basis

Tokens are provided on “as is” basis. The Token Generator Parties and each of their respective directors,
officers, employees, shareholders, affiliates and licensors make no representations or warranties of any
kind, whether express, implied, statutory or otherwise regarding Tokens, including any warranty of title,
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or any warranty that Tokens and Platform will be
uninterrupted, error-free or free of harmful components, secure or not otherwise lost or damaged. Except to
the extent prohibited by applicable law, the Token Generator Parties and each of their respective directors,
officers, employees, shareholders, affiliates and licensors disclaim all warranties, including any implied
warranties of merchantability, satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or
LEVOLUTION

45

quiet enjoyment, and any warranties arising out of any course of dealings, usage or trade.
2.4

Not an offering of securities, commodities or swaps

The sale of Tokens and Tokens themselves are not securities, commodities, swaps on either securities
or commodities, or a financial instrument of any kind. Purchases and sales of Tokens are not subject
to the protections of any laws governing those types of financial instruments. This White Paper and all
other documents referred to in this White Paper including the Terms and Conditions do not constitute
a prospectus or offering document, and are not an offer to sell, nor the solicitation of an offer to buy an
investment, a security, commodity, or a swap on either a security or commodity.
2.5

Non-Investment purposes

Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that Purchaser is not purchasing Tokens for purposes of investment,
speculation, as some type of arbitrage strategy, for immediate resale or other financial purposes. Tokens are
not designed for investment purposes and should not be considered as a type of investment.
2.6

Force majeure

The Token Generation and the performance of the Token Generator’s activities set out in White Paper
development roadmap may be interrupted, suspended or delayed due to force majeure events. For the
purposes of this White Paper, a force majeure event shall mean any extraordinary event or circumstances
which could not be prevented by Token Generator and shall include: hardware, software or other utility
failures, changes in market forces or technology, software or smart contract bugs, changes in blockchainrelated protocols, acts of nature, wars, armed conflicts, mass civil disorders, industrial actions, epidemics,
lockouts, slowdowns, prolonged shortage or other failures of energy supplies or communication service,
acts of municipal, state or federal governmental agencies or other circumstances beyond Token Generator’s
control, which were not in existence at the time of Token Generation. Purchaser understands and agrees
that Token Generator shall not be liable and disclaims all liability to Purchaser in connection with a force
majeure event.
2.7

Insurance

Unlike bank accounts or accounts at financial institutions, Tokens are uninsured unless you specifically
obtain private insurance to insure them. Thus, in the event of loss or loss of utility value, there is no public
insurer or private insurance arranged by Token Generator to offer recourse to Purchaser.

LEVOLUTION

46

3.

Governmental Disclosures

3.1

Token Generator is not a regulated mutual fund

Token Generator is not regulated as a mutual fund for the purpose of the Mutual Funds Law (Revised) of
the Cayman Islands on the basis that Tokens are not shares and Token Generator is not a mutual fund, and
neither a copy of this White Paper or details about Token Generator have been filed with Cayman Islands
Monetary Authority (CIMA). Because Token Generator is not a regulated mutual fund, Token Generator is
not subject to the supervision of CIMA and Token Generator is not required to have its accounts audited nor
submit such accounts to CIMA.
If Token Generator were regulated as a mutual fund under the Mutual Funds Law (Revised), it would need
to comply with regulatory requirements designed to protect investors, including the requirement to limit
the minimum aggregate token purchase amount to USD $100,000 or its equivalent in any other currency
in order for it not to be licensed or administered by a licensed mutual fund administrator. Token Generator
would also need to pay a prescribed initial registration fee. These are matters which would be required in
connection with an initial registration under the Mutual Funds Law. Token Generator would also then have
ongoing obligations under the Mutual Funds Law following its initial registration, including the obligation to
•

to file with CIMA prescribed details of any changes to this White Paper;

•

to file annually with CIMA accounts audited by an approved auditor and a fund annual return; and

•

to pay a prescribed annual fee.

If Token Generator were a regulated mutual fund, it would also be subject to the supervision of CIMA, and
CIMA would have wide powers to take certain actions if certain events occur.
3.2

Risk of unfavorable regulatory action in one or more jurisdictions

The regulatory status of cryptographic tokens, digital assets, and blockchain technology is undeveloped,
varies significantly among jurisdictions and is subject to significant uncertainty. It is possible that certain
jurisdictions may adopt laws, regulations, policies or rules directly or indirectly affecting the Bitcoin
and Ethereum network, or restricting the right to acquire, own, hold, sell, convert, trade, or use Tokens.
Developments in laws, regulations, policies or rules may alter the nature of the operation of the blockchain
network upon which Tokens are dependent.

LEVOLUTION

47

There can be no assurance that governmental authorities will not examine the operations of Token
Generator Parties and/or pursue enforcement actions against Token Generator Parties. All of this may
subject Token Generator Parties to judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause Token Generator
Parties to restructure their operations and activities or to cease offering certain products or services, all of
which could harm Token Generator Parties’ reputation or lead to higher operational costs, which may, in
turn, have a material adverse effect on Tokens and/or the development of the Platform.
3.3

Purchaser bears responsibility of legal categorisation

There is a risk that Tokens might be considered a security in certain jurisdictions, or that they might be
considered to be a security in the future. The Token Generator does not provide any warranty or guarantee
as to whether Tokens will be a security in the jurisdiction of the Purchaser. Each Purchaser will bear all
consequences of Tokens being considered a security in their respective jurisdiction. Every Purchaser is
responsible to confirm if the acquisition and/or disposal of Tokens is legal in its relevant jurisdiction, and
each Purchaser undertakes not to use Tokens in any jurisdiction where doing so would be unlawful. If a
Purchaser establishes that the purchase or use of Tokens is not legal in its jurisdiction, it should not acquire
Tokens and immediately stop using or possessing Tokens.
Acquiring Tokens in exchange for cryptocurrencies will most likely continue to be scrutinized by various
regulatory bodies around the world, which may impact the usage of Tokens. The legal ability of the Token
Generator to provide or support Tokens in some jurisdictions may be eliminated by future regulation or
legal actions. In the event the Token Generator determines that the purchase or usage of Tokens is illegal in
a certain jurisdiction, the Token Generator may cease operations in that jurisdiction, or adjust Tokens or the
Platform in a way to comply with applicable law.
3.4

Purchaser bears responsibility for complying with transfer restrictions

Tokens may be placed on third-party exchanges, giving future purchasers and users an opportunity to
openly buy Tokens. A user seeking to enter the Platform following the Token Generation will have to buy
Tokens on such exchanges. Conversely, Tokens may be sold on such exchanges if the holder of Tokens would
like to exit the Platform ecosystem. Existing laws on the circulation of securities in certain countries, such
as the United States of America, Canada and Singapore, may prohibit the sale of Tokens to the residents of
those countries. When buying Tokens, Purchaser should be aware of the restrictions on their subsequent
sale.
4.

General Security Risks

4.1

Risk of theft and hacking

LEVOLUTION

48

Token generation events and initial coin offerings are often targeted by hackers and bad actors. Hackers
may attempt to interfere with the purchaser’s wallet (Purchaser’s Wallet), the Token Smart Contract or the
availability of Tokens in any number of ways, including without limitation denial of service attacks, Sybil
attacks, spoofing, smurfing, malware attacks, or consensus-based attacks. Any such attack may result in
theft of Purchaser’s Tokens.
4.2

Private keys

Tokens purchased by Purchaser may be held by Purchaser in Purchaser’s digital wallet or vault, which
requires a private key, or a combination of private keys, for access. Accordingly, loss of requisite private
key(s) associated with Purchaser’s digital wallet or vault storing Tokens will result in loss of such Tokens.
Moreover, any third party that gains access to such private key(s), including by gaining access to login
credentials of a hosted wallet or vault service Purchaser uses, may be able to misappropriate Purchaser’s
Tokens. Token Generator is not responsible for any such losses.
4.3

Failure to map a public key to Purchaser’s Wallet

Failure of the Purchaser to map a public key to the Purchaser’s Wallet may result in third-parties being
unable to recognize buyer’s Tokens balance on the Ethereum blockchain when and if they configure the
initial balances of a new blockchain based upon the Platform.
4.4

Exchange risks

If Purchaser sends Ether to the Token Generator from an exchange or an account that Purchaser does not
control, Tokens will be allocated to the account that has sent Ether; therefore, Purchaser may never receive
or be able to recover Purchaser’s Tokens. Furthermore, if Purchaser chooses to maintain or hold Tokens
through a cryptocurrency exchange or other third party, Purchaser’s Tokens may be stolen or lost.
4.5

Risk of incompatible wallet services

The wallet or wallet service provider used for the acquisition and storage of Tokens has to be technically
compatible with Tokens. The failure to assure this may result in the Purchaser not being able to gain access
to its Tokens.
4.6

Risk of weaknesses or exploitable breakthroughs in the field of cryptography

Advances in cryptography, or other technical advances such as the development of quantum computers,
could present risks to cryptocurrencies, Ethereum and Tokens, which could result in the theft or loss of
Tokens.

LEVOLUTION

49

4.7

Internet transmission risks

There are risks associated with using Tokens including, but not limited to, the failure of hardware, software,
and internet connections. The Token Generator shall not be responsible for any communication failures,
disruptions, errors, distortions or delays you may experience when using the Platform and Tokens,
howsoever caused. Transactions in cryptocurrencies may be irreversible, and, accordingly, losses due to
fraudulent or accidental transactions may not be recoverable. cryptocurrencies transactions are deemed to
be made when recorded on a public ledger, which is not necessarily the date or time when the transaction is
initiated.
5.

Platform and Token Smart Contract Disclosures

5.1

No guarantee that Platform or Token Smart Contract will be developed

Purchaser acknowledges, understands and agrees that Purchaser should not expect and there is no
guarantee or representation or warranty by Token Generator or Platform Operator that: (a) the Platform
and Token Smart Contract will ever be adopted; (b) the Platform and Token Smart Contract will be adopted
as developed and not in a different or modified form; (c) a final blockchain utilizing or adopting the Token
Smart Contract will ever be launched; and (d) a final blockchain will ever be launched with or without
changes to the Token Smart Contract and with or without a distribution of tokens matching the fixed initial
balances of Tokens recorded on the Token Smart Contract. Furthermore, Tokens issued under the Token
Smart Contract will not have any functionality on the final blockchain and holding Tokens is not a guarantee,
representation or warranty that the holder will be able to use such final blockchain, or receive any tokens
actually utilized on the Platform with the final blockchain is created, even if the Platform is launched and the
Token Smart Contract is adopted, of which there is no guarantee, representation or warranty made by Token
Generator.
5.2

Risks associated with the Token Smart Contract and associated software and/or infrastructure.

Malfunctions
The Token Smart Contract is based on the Ethereum blockchain. As such, any malfunction, unintended
function or unexpected functioning of the Ethereum protocol may cause Tokens and/or the Platform to
malfunction or function in an unexpected or unintended manner.
Bugs and weaknesses
The Ethereum blockchain rests on open source software, and accordingly, there is the risk that the Token
Smart Contract may contain intentional or unintentional bugs or weaknesses which may negatively affect
Tokens or result in the loss or theft of Tokens or the loss of ability to access or control Tokens. In the event
of such a software bug or weakness, there may be no remedy and Tokens holders are not guaranteed any
LEVOLUTION

50

remedy, refund or compensation.
Delays and congestions
On the Ethereum blockchain timing of block production is determined by proof of work so block production
can occur at random times. For example, Ether contributed to the Token Smart Contract in the final seconds
of a distribution period may not get included for that period. Purchaser acknowledges and understands that
the Ethereum blockchain may not include the Purchaser’s transaction at the time Purchaser expects and
Purchaser may not receive Tokens the same day Purchaser sends Ether. The Ethereum blockchain is prone
to periodic congestion during which transactions can be delayed or lost. Individuals may also intentionally
spam the Ethereum] network in an attempt to gain an advantage in purchasing cryptographic tokens.
Purchaser acknowledges and understands that Ethereum block producers may not include Purchaser’s
transaction when Purchaser wants or Purchaser’s transaction may not be included at all.
Value of Ether
Ether, the native unit of account of the Ethereum may itself lose value in ways similar to Tokens, and also
other ways. More information about Ethereum is available at http://www.ethereum.org.
5.3

Irreversible nature of blockchain transactions

Transactions involving Tokens that have been verified, and thus recorded as a block on the blockchain,
generally cannot be undone. Even if the transaction turns out to have been in error, or due to theft of a
user’s Tokens, the transaction is not reversible. Further, at this time, there is no governmental, regulatory,
investigative, or prosecutorial authority or mechanism through which to bring an action or complaint
regarding missing or stolen Cryptocurrencies and Tokens. Consequently, the Token Generator may be
unable to replace missing Tokens or seek reimbursement for any erroneous transfer or theft of Tokens.
5.4

Amendments to protocol

The development team and administrators of the source code for Ethereum blockchain or the Token Smart
Contract could propose amendments to such network’s protocols and software that, if accepted and
authorized, or not accepted, by the network community, could adversely affect the supply, security, value, or
market share of Tokens.
5.5

Risk of mining attacks

As with other decentralized cryptocurrencies, Ethereum blockchain, which is used for Tokens, is susceptible
to mining attacks, including but not limited to double-spend attacks, majority mining power attacks,
“selfish-mining” attacks and race condition attacks. Any successful attack presents a risk to Tokens,
including the expected proper execution and sequencing of Tokens and Ethereum contract computations
LEVOLUTION

51

in general. Despite the efforts of the Token Generator and Ethereum Foundation, the risk of known or novel
mining attacks exists. Mining attacks, as described above, may also target other blockchain networks,
with which Tokens interact with and consequently Tokens may be impacted also in that way to the extent
described above.
6.

Token Generator and Platform Operator Disclosures

6.1

Legal structure of Token Generator and Platform Operator

The Token Generator is an exempted company incorporated in the Cayman Islands pursuant to the
Companies Law (Revised). An exempted company is a body corporate which has separate legal personality
capable of exercising all the functions of a natural person of full capacity irrespective of any question of
corporate benefit, and having perpetual succession. The constitution of an exempted company is contained
in two documents, the memorandum of association and the articles of association (Articles). The Articles
typically provide that there must be at least one director of a Cayman company and the management
of the company is the responsibility of, and is carried out by, its board of directors. The memorandum
of association of a Cayman company must specify the authorized share capital of such company. The
memorandum of association will state the aggregate amount of the authorized share capital, together with
details of the number of shares into which it is divided and the par value of those shares. As a holder of
Tokens, you are not entitled to any shares of Token Generator nor to any other right or interest in or to Token
Generator (including any debt or equity interest therein) and will have no rights to appoint or remove the
board of directors or operators of Token Generator.
As a holder of Tokens, you are not entitled to any shares of Platform Operator nor to any other right or
interest in or to Platform Operator (including any debt or equity interest therein) and will have no rights to
appoint or remove the board of directors or operators of Platform.
Because Tokens confer no governance rights of any kind with respect to the Token Generator, Platform
Operator or the Platform, all decisions involving the Token Generator’s and Platform Operator’s products
or services, including the services provided on the Platform will be made by Token Generator and/or the
Platform Operator in their sole discretion. These decisions could adversely affect the platform and the utility
of any Tokens you own.
6.2

Relationship between Token Generator and Platform Operator

The Token Generator and Platform Operator are not partners under any partnership arrangement and,
accordingly, neither party may contractually bind the other as its partner.
6.3

Dependence on management team

LEVOLUTION

52

The ability of each of the Token Generator’s and Platform Operator’s project teams, which are respectively
responsible for maintaining competitive position of the Tokens and Platform, is dependent to a large degree
on the services of their management teams. The loss or diminution in the services of members of such
senior management team or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional senior management
personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Tokens and Platform. Competition for personnel with
relevant expertise is intense due to the small number of qualified individuals, and this competition may
seriously affect such entity’s ability to retain its existing senior management and attract additional qualified
senior management personnel, which could have a significant adverse impact on the Tokens and Platform.
6.4

Risks related to reliance on third parties

Even if completed, the Platform will rely, in whole or partly, on third-parties to adopt and implement it and
to continue to develop, supply, and otherwise support it. There is no assurance or guarantee that those
third-parties will complete their work, properly carry out their obligations, or otherwise meet anyone’s
needs, any of which might have a material adverse effect on the Platform.
6.5

Insufficient interest in the Platform and Tokens

It is possible that the Platform or Tokens will not be used by a large number of individuals, businesses
and organizations and that there will be limited public interest in the creation and development of its
functionalities. Such a lack of interest could impact the development of the Tokens and Platform.
6.6

Platform development risks

The development of the Token Smart Contract and/or Platform be abandoned for a number of reasons,
including lack of interest from the public, insufficient funding, insufficient commercial success or prospects
or departure of key personnel.
6.7

Changes to Platform

The Platform is still under development and may undergo significant changes over time. Although Platform
Operator intends for the Platform to have the features and specifications set forth in this White Paper,
changes to such features and specifications may be made for any number of reasons, any of which may
mean that the Platform does not meet expectations of the Purchaser.
6.8

Other projects

The Token Smart Contract and Platform may give rise to other, alternative projects, promoted by parties that
are affiliated or unaffiliated with the Token Generator Parties and such projects may provide no benefit to
the Tokens or Platform.

LEVOLUTION

53

6.9

Disclosures relating to conflicts of interest

Any of the Token Generator Parties may be engaged in transactions with related parties and conflicts of
interest may arise, potentially resulting in the conclusion of transactions on terms not determined by market
forces.
6.10

Licences and approvals are not assured in all jurisdictions.

Platform Operator intend to operate in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations and obtain
the necessary licenses and approvals in key markets. This means that the development and rollout of all
the features of the ecosystem described in this whitepaper are not guaranteed. Regulatory licenses and/
or approvals are potentially to be required in a number of relevant jurisdictions in which relevant activities
may take place. It is not possible to guarantee, and no person makes any assurances, that any such licenses
or approvals will be obtained within a particular timeframe or at all. This means that Platform Operator
and other features of the proposed ecosystem may not be available in certain markets, or at all. This could
require restructuring of that ecosystem and/or its unavailability in all or certain respects.
6.11

No Auditing

The Token Generator and Platform Operator are not required to and will not provide Purchasers with any
accounting regarding the use of the proceeding from the sale of the Tokens. The use of such proceeding will
not be subject to any audit.
7.

Other Disclosures

Purchases of Tokens should be undertaken only by individuals, entities, or companies that have
significant experience with, and understanding of, the usage and intricacies of cryptocurrencies, including
cryptographically secured digital tokens, and blockchain based software systems. Purchaser should have
a functional understanding of storage and transmission mechanisms associated with other cryptographic
tokens. While the Token Generator will be available to assist purchasers of Tokens during the sale, the Token
Generator will not be responsible in any way for loss of BTC, ETH or Tokens resulting from actions taken by,
or omitted by purchasers. If you do not have such experience or expertise, then you should not purchase
Tokens or participate in the sale of Tokens.
Cryptographic tokens such as Tokens are a new and untested technology. In addition to the risks included
above, there are other risks associated with your purchase, possession and use of Tokens, including
unanticipated risks. Such risks may further materialize as unanticipated variations or combinations of the
risks discussed above.

LEVOLUTION

54

ito.levolution.io

Facebook
LEVOLUTION

Twitter

youtube

linkedin

telegram
55

