LIBARTY
SHARE
TOKEN
get the idea

Do that thing
you love.
We do!
Libarty, a synonym of the word art - art and liberty - freedom...
We like to interpret it best: The art of being free!
The Sharetoken is a phonetic prank derived from the word charitytoken,
where the word share for the sharing outlines the idea rather than charity per se.

Bad news first: You missed it!
Are you an investor who missed the beginnings of Bitcoin
10 years ago?

Well, that's a pity, but the good news is: You have a
second chance with libartysharetoken.
If you don't take 10 minutes now, you will regret it again
in 10 years.

WE ARE NOT PLANNING AN ICO BECAUSE THE LIBARTY ECOSYSTEM DOES NOT RELY ON OUTSIDE CAPITAL
• The libartysharetoken is an internal accounting unit for all transactions of the participating companies within the Libarty
ecosystem. It is planned to extend the LST as a means of payment for product purchases and services.
• Customers of the participating Libarty companies receive the LST in the amount of their purchase (1 EUR corresponds to
1 LST). Value arises from the mandatory purchase of companies.
• In addition, value creation is driven by innovative investment strategies of Libarty Invest and free trading on various
stock exchanges.
Our business model:
So let us explain how things work
Imagine you own a company with a turnover of 1.0 million euros and you would like to use LST as a customer loyalty and
acquisition tool, so that you receive 10%, i.e. 100,000 LST once free of charge from the system. If one of your
customers makes use of your services or products (in the amount of 50,000 euros), he will receive 50,000 LST from you
after paying the invoice as a thank you for his loyalty. For the next customer it can be 10,000 euros, for the next 20,000
and so on until the LST are used up.
In this case you would buy LST for your next customer. For you, the factor 100 implies that the purchase of 100,000
LST will cost you 1,000 euros, which will be invested in the reserve and for the further value creation of LST.

WIN - WIN principle
What does the customer gain from this? Let us take this example
Your customer receives a gift from you - no points, no empty promises, but cash in the form of the LST, which can be
redeemed immediately. The selling price in the example is 50.000 Euro. This means that your service or product has actually
cost them only 49,500 euros. He can also keep the LST and sell it at a better price. According to our calculations, the value
will be around 1 Euro per LST in about 1 - 2 years. Your product or service will therefore cost him nothing. On the contrary,
depending on the course of the LST, there is also the possibility of making a profit.

What do you get as an entrepreneur?
You have probably already guessed. The customer will buy from you again, and he will of course recommend you to others.
In this way you create loyal customers and expand your customer base. The customer will buy from you again and will
naturally recommend you to others. This is how you create loyal customers and expand your customer base. In addition, you
will be promoted and recommended to an ever-growing community in the Libarty ecosystem, which will increase your
visibility and give you the opportunities you dream of in the Libarty community. Finally, the tax office will pay you the LST
because you can deduct 100% of it as advertising costs.

What does the LibartyShareToken gain from this?

Quite simply - HE LIVES ON IT.
Transactions are on the increase, more
owners mean greater awareness, greater
demand, constantly increasing reserves,
steady value development - risk-free in
one direction: upwards.

LIBARTYSHARETOKEN – BORN ON 29TH OF JULY 2019

It is a fact that the gap between rich and poor is constantly widening. Unfortunately, politics and
the church fail to the same extent thus social injustice is aggravated. On the other side one of the
most serious problems of today is the irresponsible use of our planet's resources. Here, too, the
activities of all institutions are slowed down and halfheartedly, as decisions are often made from
an economic point of view and strive for power, and rarely actually focus on focal points.

THE LIBARTY-PROJECT
An ever-growing community of innovative companies, visionaries, private individuals, free thinkers and
investors have come together to address today's problems. The Libarty Ecosystem and with it the
'libartysharetoken' was born, manifesting the fundamental goal: To help! The word Share in the sense of
sharing gets a real meaning, because
10%
of the profits generated from the entire Libarty ecosystem are invested in environmental and social
projects!

A Token?

Let us briefly explain what a
token is about. You will see that
it is not as strange to you as it
may seem at first glance.

Tokenisation is the digitised representation of an asset.
Giral money, for example, is a digital image of money. Shareholders used to receive their rights in
paper form and had to present them for exercise. Long before block chaining and tokenisation, this
was out of fashion. Those who hold securities in their own or their bank's securities account
automatically receive dividend credits and invitations, including voting cards, to the Annual
General Meeting in digital form.
If you sell a share, also digitised, you also sell the rights to the buyer.

In the process of tokenisation, all assets can now be digitally represented and are therefore
tradable worldwide without the involvement of banks and other institutions.
A token, like our 'libartysharetoken', is therefore the digital form of an asset, similar to a share,
with a right to project-related rights, such as profit sharing.

CHARITY PROJECTS THE IDEA FOR THE PROMOTIONAL PROJECTS COME
EXCLUSIVELY FROM THE OWN COMMUNITY
We already have some interesting and innovative projects in progress, we have been able to inspire
them for our Libarty idea. Other projects are in the area of environmental protection - recycling,
material exchange etc. are in preparation or already in the integration phase.
The Human Integrity e. V. is also being established. Other charity projects are being considered.
Contacts have been established and discussions started with various animal welfare organizations and
a children's aid organization.
The libartysharetoken is based on the open source principle developed by the entire community advertised, managed
and controlled and technically developed.
*
Centbycent Ltd. provides external advice based in Malta with the following expertise:
Business start-ups, Development of worldwide corporate networks & private networks, Complete financial
management, wealth management, Solution-oriented crisis management, Strategy development for blockchain
applications, competent business & private coaching, Personal development, motivation, training
Inquiries and contact:
info@centbycent.world

People
behind the
project.
Our competence team is made up
of experts from all relevant
financial sectors. Check our
website for details.

Time for some
details:
Technical data, time planning and legal
information must not be missing of
course...

International regulations equate investments and securities.
The background to this is that in most countries there is a law on investment in classical investments. For securities, however, the
Securities Prospectus Act and the Securities Trading Act apply. The decisive factors for allocation to investments or securities are
characteristics in terms of transferability, standardisation and capital marketability. Through tokenisation, traditional investments become
tradable securities.
Regulatory authorities assume that an investment within the meaning of the German Investment Act after tokenisation legally and
regulatively constitutes a security within the meaning of the German Securities Prospectus Act and the German Securities Trading Act.
This means that tokens as property are fully legally secured, inheritable and subject to the tax liability of the respective competent
authority.
Risk warning: An investment in tokens is subject to a risk of loss, just like shares, funds and all other forms of investment. Please never
pass on your password, private key or seed to third parties. None of our team, not even the support team will ever demand the surrender!
ROADMAP
• Token gift phase: 08/01/2019 to 12/31/2020 - max 10,000 LST
• Advertising phase: 09/01/2019 to 08/31/2020 - max 100,000 LST per wallet - sale at the calculated price, limited to a maximum of
10,000,000 LST in total.
• September 2019 * Foundation of Centbycent Ltd.
• November 2019 * SEIWIEUWE merchandising test phase
• June 2020 * Founding of Libarty SL
• August 2020 * Founding of Libarty Invest
• September 2020 * Listing at VinDax
• December 2020 * first distribution from the Libarty Charity Wallet to social projects
• March 2021 * libartysharetoken connection to open source exchanges and exchangers
• May 2021 * libartysharetoken on its own blockchain with its own wallet

Technical specifications

ERC 20 Token - Utility Token
Total Supply: 100.000.000 LST
Holders current: 132
Transfers until today: 311
18 Decimals
Symbol: LST
Contract: 0x355376d6471e09a4ffca8790f50da625630c5270
See also on ethplorer.io or etherscan.io
Listed at VINDAX

Ready to join?
Are you the rational or emotional investor type?
Either way, here are 13 reasons why you should
invest:

13 reasons why you should invest in the libartysharetoken:

Loss-free, bank-independent investment, without risk
Decentralized, international controlling
Above-average profit expectation from day one
Medium-term goal € 1.00 per 1.0 LST
Huge growth potential - the aim is a rate of € 100 per 1.0 LST
Purchase price below current market value
Protection against inflation by strictly limiting the number of tokens issued
Innovative project with huge potential
Win-win for everyone involved
Ideas, advice, cooperation - you are very welcome!
Our information channels always keep you up to date.
You support social and environmental projects: "Get rich and do good!"
... and you get purchasing benefits from our partners

The competence team around Centbycent Ltd. made every
effort to bring this project to life in order to create added
value for all partners, investors and friends in a harmonious
win-win atmosphere.
Atmosphere is nothing rigid. It lives from change
and adaptation.
Every holder of libartysharetoken is a part of
this atmosphere and welcomed to join in!

AN IDEA IS ONLY VALUABLE
IF ITS WINGS GROW

Now it's your turn:

Have we aroused your interest and ...
Would you like to participate as an investor / sponsor in the Libarty ecosystem?
Would you like to use the LST as a customer acquisition and loyalty program?
You just want to benefit from the added value of the LST ???
Then let us know! Our core team is waiting for you !!!
info@libartysharetoken.com
You find us on Facebook and Instagram too.
All press releases you can check on our website:
https://libartysharetoken.com

