WHITEPAPER

OIR
Community built, privacy driven.

October 2018

Table of contents
I. Introduction

p. 3

II. Why community-governed?

p. 4

III. Goal

p. 5

IV. Economic Model

p. 6

V. Specifications

p. 7

VI. Zerocoin protocol

p. 8

VII. Mining

p. 9

VIII.Masternodes

p. 10

IX. Voting System

p. 11

I. Introduction

NOIR WHITEPAPER

NOIR (NOR) is a decentralized cryptocurrency that seeks to provide a secure and untraceable payment
service for its users.
Being based on the proven cryptographic technology of the Zerocoin protocol, NOIR offers anonymity
and privacy to its users when desired.
NOIR is in comparison to many other coins completely governed by the community and belongs to all
who want to participate in shaping its future.

NOIROFFICIAL.ORG

3

II. Why community-governed?

NOIR WHITEPAPER

The reason why NOIR has become a community-governed cryptocurrency is ingrained in its history. It
was the community who decided to take over the project after it was abandoned by the original
dev(s).
Today, the Noir Team consists of volunteers from the community and who offered their time,
knowledge, experience, and dedication to the development of NOIR.
In the near future, major decisions will be made by the community as a whole. This will be done
through voting, which will be integrated in the official wallets (see roadmap).
Through this process, people with different ideas, goals, and opinions will be able to help shape the
future of NOIR.

NOIROFFICIAL.ORG

4

III. Goal

NOIR WHITEPAPER

Our goal

The road ahead

The goal is to turn NOIR into a currency for one’s daily
payments.

Our plans for the next few years include:

A coin that is not only traded for speculative reasons, but
a currency that enables people to buy products and
services in a secure and untraceable way.
One of the main goals is therefore to develop a wallet
that integrates markets, users democracy, exchanges,
communities and security for both buyer and seller.

• Mobile wallets on iOS and Android
• Add Noir to more Exchanges
• Add Real-World Usescases
• Get Noir into an Existing Crypto CreditCard
• Community voting build right into the wallet
• Shared Masternodes Service
For an up-to-date roadmap, please visit
https://noirofficial.org

NOIROFFICIAL.ORG

5

IV. Economic Model

NOIR WHITEPAPER

Its purpose

The Development Reward Fund

The Noir Team will release a financial report at the end
of every month.

It was voted on by 95% of the community, has been
instated and initiate at block 230250 until block 255250
increasing block rewards to 50 and allocation 37.5 Noir
per block to the fund.

This means full transparency towards the community on
the costs and funding of the project, but also the
community’s participation on how we want and / or can
fund future development.

This will not affect miner rewards, once block 255250 is
reached, block rewards will go back to 12.5.

Where / What

Donation addresses

The financial reports can be found on the official website and
will offer updates and information on:
• The current balance of the development fund in NOR & BTC
• Cost of current and past projects
• Information on how to donate NOR & BTC

NOR : ZL2juii5Y6z9Fnsd9Y1dRRvFC33CR9aDj8
BTC : 16et3UzdsLgbubKbthJArkbzYt3Hev75U2

NOIROFFICIAL.ORG

6

V. Specifications

NOIR WHITEPAPER

Launch date : 05 November 2016
Community Coin
No Premine, No ICO
Only mineable per CPU
Zerocoin Protocol
Total Coins: 21 Million
Proof of Work, Algo : Lyra2z330 (2,330,256)
Initial reward : 100 NOR per block
With block 210000 the reward is 12.5 NOR and halving every 210000 blocks
Block time: 2.5 minutes

NOIROFFICIAL.ORG

7

VI. Zerocoin protocol

NOIR WHITEPAPER

What is Zerocoin?
Zerocoin is a project to fix a major weakness in Bitcoin: the lack of privacy. Our goal is to build a cryptocurrency where your
neighbours, friends and enemies can’t see what you bought or for how much. This project began with a proposed extension, called
“Zerocoin”, to the Bitcoin protocol that allowed users to mix their own coin. A collaboration between the original Zerocoin project
members and cryptographers at MIT, The Technion, and Tel Aviv University, has produced a far more efficient protocol that allows
for direct private payments to other users.

How Zerocoin works
With the new Zerocoin protocol, Zerocoin allows direct anonymous payments between parties. Zerocoin transactions exist
alongside the (nonanonymous) normal transactions. Each user can convert non-anonymous coins into anonymous coins, which we
call Noir-Zerocoins. Users can then send Noir-Zerocoins to other users, and split or merge Noir-Zerocoins they own in any way that
preserves the total value. Users can also convert Noir-Zerocoins back into normal Noir, though in principle this is not necessary : all
transactions can be made in terms of Noir-Zerocoins.

Zerocoin scheme for bitcoin :

For more information about the Zerocoin protocol, please visit http://zerocoin.org

NOIROFFICIAL.ORG

8

VII. Mining

NOIR WHITEPAPER

Initial reward 100 NOR per block
Reward halves every 210 000 blocks
Total coins : 21 Million hard cap
Mined blocks mature in 101 blocks
Block time 2.5 min

NOIROFFICIAL.ORG

9

VIII.Masternodes

NOIR WHITEPAPER

What is a Masternode?
Masternodes are nodes running the same wallet software on the same blockchain to provide extra services to
the network such as instant send, coin mixing to support privacy, and help in stabilizing the network.
Anyone can run a Masternode and the objective is to have enough online to provide a true level of
decentralization, which doesn’t favour a country, geography, company, or person. For providing such services,
masternodes are also paid a certain portion of the reward of each block.

How much Noir for one Masternode?
To create a masternode called NOIRNODE, an user needs to lock in a specific amount of Noir.
1 NOIRNODE = 25,000 NOIR

NOIROFFICIAL.ORG

10

IX. Voting System

NOIR WHITEPAPER

Noir’s online-based voting represents an ideal decentralized platform for exercising democracy.
One of our goals is to create a decentralized voting system that allows anyone to vote and participate
from his wallet.
That ensures the entire network can’t be taken over by a single entity and that every member of the
community gets a say in important decisions.

NOIROFFICIAL.ORG

11

noirofficial.org

OIR
Community built, privacy driven.

2018 – The Noir Team

