The Oracle of Blockchain

OASISBloc is the first blockchainized data platform for
Trading useful data and value between real businesses.

WHITEPAPER
Ver 0.7.5
March 11, 2021

Copyright 2019 FOUNDATION OASIS LTD. All rights reserved.
Company Registration No. 201835937N)

1

INDEX

1. Introduction
2. Background
- 2.1 Characteristics of blockchain platforms
- 2.2 Trends in blockchain platform technology (EOS, Qtum etc.)
- 2.3 Trends in blockchain based data trading platforms

- 2.4 Various efforts to overcome limitations of current blockchain technology

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
- 3.1 Project background
- 3.2 Mission and goal
- 3.3 Concept
- 3.4 Key value (data x partners = ecosystem)
- 3.5 Governance
- 3.6 Applied technology

4. OASISBloc platform
- 4.1 Platform features
- 4.2 Blockchain configuration
- 4.3 Platform configuration
- 4.4 Consensus algorithm: ePoA
- 4.5 Security
- 4.6 Process of data transaction
- 4.7 Role of data keeper and its reward

5. Service model
- 5.1 Overview
- 5.2 Service cases of Domain Chain
- 5.3 Case of utilizing service by converging data between Domain Chains
- 5.4 Case of solving current problems by converging data between Domain Chains

2

INDEX

6. OASISBloc token
- 6.1 Features
- 6.2 Token issuance
- 6.3 Token sales
- 6.4 Token allocation
- 6.5 Fund allocation

7. Ecosystem & roadmap
- 7.1 Establishing token ecosystem
- 7.2 OASISBloc roadmap

8. Plans for ecosystem development
- 8.1 Marketing plan
- 8.2 Partnership plan

9. Team
- 9.1 Our team
- 9.2 Our advisors

10. Legal disclaimer
11. References

3

The Oracle of Blockchain

Introduction

4

The Oracle of Blockchain

1. Introduction
The global big data market is growing as government investments in the fourth
industrial technology is expanding and as industries such as AI (Artificial Intelligence),
Machine Learning, IoT (Internet of Things) etc. are growing. The big data market is
expected to grow from $ 33.5 billion in 2017 to $ 92.2 billion in 2026.1
As the big data trading market is growing, the support from governments around
the world is also expanding to utilize big data of both public and private
organizations.
South Korea has opened K-ICT big data center to support big data infrastructure and
practical training environment so that individuals and companies can utilize big data.
The United States has allowed access of public data and data trading for companies
through the guideline NISTIR 8053: De-identification of Personal Information.
In the case of EU, a consortium of 17 institutions is running a joint project with
public and private sectors to utilize the data generated in the transportation and
logistics industries.
Japan is planning to push forward with “approved data bank” system which can be
used by companies and research institutes for product development by collecting
big data in the industrial fields.
China, which is expected to account for a third (appx. 8.47 billion dollars) of the
total bigdata volume across the world by 2025, is working to support the
convergence of different industries and establish various business models by
accelerating the bigdata convergence, adopting the New Distribution, and
establishing data protection standards. 2
With institutional support and growth of data trading market, approximately 53% of
global companies are actively seeking to innovate products and services by utilizing
big data. In the future, how companies utilize big data in the global market will be
the key determinant of corporate competitiveness. 3
However, companies still have the following limitations of data trading and
utilization.

First, the available data is limited. In order to enhance company competitiveness, it
is important to discover new products and services by analyzing the market data of
the same industry, other industries, and the target global market. However, many
SMEs (small and medium enterprises) are facing difficulty in securing data due to
lack of data experts and budget for system construction and management.
Second, the standardization of data sources is insufficient. Even within the same
industry, the quality of the available data is deteriorated due to lack of data
standard policies. Data deterioration is caused by managing data of the same
meaning under a different name or by not making changes to new requirements.
Deteriorated data may lead to inaccurate data trading and errors on decision
making which may cause loss to companies. Data standardization must be preceded
in order to share and utilize reliable data. 4
Third, the distribution system for data trading is not properly established.
Guidelines for prices to buy or sell data is unclear. Also, the system information for
data production, process, and usage history of data are unverified.

1. German STARTISTA 2017 Research Report
2. Trend and Significance of China’s Bigdata Market – Institute for International
Trade (2020 Nov.)
3. Dresner Advisory Services survey of 4,000 companies worldwide where results
shows: 66% for North America, 24% for Europe/Middle East/Africa, and 7% for
Asia. (Bigdata Monthly, vol. 37, 2018.1)
4. [IT daily article] “AI and big data, how is it evolving?”
http://www.itdaily.kr/news/articleView.html?idxno=92037

5

The Oracle of Blockchain

1. Introduction
In the future, a new paradigm is required for a more transparent and safe data
trading within various industries. Transparent data trading history is necessary for
both data sellers and buyers.
OASISBloc is a blockchain project that links scattered value and data across
industries and allows trading. OASISBloc will solve the problems on accessing
worldwide data and the limitations of current blockchains which are specific to each
particular industry domain. We are aiming to create collaborative value among
companies through virtuous circulation of data ecosystem between data producers
and consumers.

6

The Oracle of Blockchain

Background
2.1 Characteristics of blockchain platforms
2.2 Trends in blockchain platform technology (EOS, Qtum etc.)
2.3 Trends in blockchain based data trading platforms
2.4 Various efforts to overcome limitations of current blockchain technology

7

The Oracle of Blockchain

2. Background
2.1 Characteristics of blockchain
platforms

1) First generation blockchain - Bitcoin
With the advent of Bitcoin, people can trade and own something that are not
banknotes, coins, or gold but have the value of money, without any
involvement of the central system such as banks or the government. Bitcoin
can secure reliability of transaction without the third party even if the
transaction is done with an unknown counterparty. Through the DLT
(Distributed Ledger Technology) of blockchain, anyone can freely participate
and browse the transaction history of Bitcoin. Also, participants can access,
store, and confirm transactions.
The introduction of Bitcoin was an event that caused a paradigm shift from a
centralized financial system to a decentralized financial system. Bitcoin was
the beginning of cryptocurrency with new value beyond “currency” such as
cash or coins, banknotes, and bonds.
However, since Bitcoin is used only as a means of remittance and payment, it
is limited to be applied to various types of financial businesses. Bitcoin is
difficult to be used for real-time transactions due to slow transaction speed,
which is caused by time-consuming confirmations as the network expands.
2) Second generation blockchain - Ethereum
Ethereum has a special feature which is the blockchain based smart contract.
Smart contract is designed to automatically contract when predefined
conditions are met. In addition to the “money” function of Bitcoin, smart
contract is designed to execute contract through negotiation among
participants without any third party intervention in various conditions.
Contracts established through smart contract are stored in distributed
ledgers which cannot be canceled or modified. This makes it possible to
conduct mutual trust based transactions without verifications from third
parties. The Ethereum platform also provides a DApp (decentralized
application) environment that can be used for various business areas.
However, Ethereum still has problems such as high usage fees, the network
scalability, limited data size, slow network processing speed, and lack of selfdecision function when smart contract is executed.
Ethereum is working on ways to extend the database scalability - sharding
which requires only few nodes for confirmations and processes many
transactions in parallel at the same time. Also, they are developing a Layer 2
protocol that handles transactions on off-chain and interacts with blockchain
only when entering and leaving the Layer 2 system.

2-2. Trends in blockchain platform
technology (EOS, Qtum etc.)

So called, next generation blockchains aim to solve the problems of the
existing blockchains and to industrialize the blockchain technology to a wider
society just like the World Wide Web (www). These blockchains attempt to
improve the fundamental limitations of blockchain by: making changes in the
consensus algorithm for better scalability and interoperability; developing
distributed ledger management technology; and adding self-decision making
function. Those blockchain projects are developing technologies with clear
objectives such as faster transaction speed, prevention of hard fork, come up
with new consensus algorithm, and free transaction fees.

8

The Oracle of Blockchain

2. Background
2-2. Trends in blockchain platform
technology (EOS, Qtum etc.)

As blockchain is being recognized as the main infrastructure of future
industries, those blockchains are expected to be a platform type that focuses
not only on the advantages of the existing blockchains but also on the
technology standardization and wide scalability to converge with other
technologies such as AI, big data, and IoT.
Currently, there are active researches on blockchain platforms for
distribution and energy industries to maximize the benefit of decentralization.
Also, many blockchain based products and services are being introduced in
various industries. Blockchains in the medical fields and administrative
management services are drawing attention as it requires high security and
transparency to manage sensitive personal information. The development of
blockchain is expected to establish a transparent society where data integrity
is guaranteed and managed safely.

2-3. Trends in blockchain based
data trading platforms

The number of projects for blockchain based data trading platform is
increasing to utilize meaningful public data while protecting personal data
accumulated through the Internet and IT devices. The global market size of
big data trading which uses blockchain for data confidentiality and security, is
growing steadily.
Below are few examples:
1) DECODE (Decentralized Citizen Owned Data Ecosystem)
DECODE has been selected for Horizon2020, which is an EU funded project,
and running from December 2016 to December 2019. Citizens can decide
whether to keep their personal information closed in online or to share it for
public interest through smart contracts based on blockchain. This project is
to establish an ecosystem for the distributed data owned by citizens.
2) MHMD (MyHealthMyData)
MHMD is another project of Horizon2020 which is running from November
2016 to October 2019. MHMD seeks new ways of sharing personal data for
individuals (patients) who are the primary data owners, to enhance
confidentiality and security of personal health/medical data. The
Horizon2020 project builds an open network of medical data that allows
hospitals to provide anonymized medical data to the network and patients to
exercise ownership and control over their own health/medical data. MHMD
adopted the blockchain based DLT system for the first time in the healthcare
field to provide high transparency and reliability with utilizing the data from
patients, hospitals, research institutes, and companies in the medical sector.
Similar to MHMD, Nebula Genomics and Longenisis are proceeding with a
joint project. The project is building a platform to store, manage, exchange,
and sell genome and various clinical data using AI and blockchain.5
In summary, various projects in the medical, transportation, and
advertisement fields are expected to spread throughout the global data
industry.

5. Source: BC FOCUS, 2018.05

9

The Oracle of Blockchain

2. Background
2-4. Various efforts to overcome
limitations of current
blockchain technology

Various projects are in progress to overcome the limitations of the current
blockchain technology.
1) Transaction speed (efficiency)
There are many attempts to increase transaction speed by increasing block
size, shortening block generation time, and improving consensus algorithm.
Lightning network and sharding have been developed and are undergoing
tests for real-time transactions.
① Sharding: divides the network and sets transaction orders for each
partition, and then merges the orders.
② Side chain: creates a small network to set transaction orders, then
sends the results to the main chain.
③ State channel: sets transaction orders of the nodes which are
connected to the hotline and links the results to the main chain.

2) Security
Various cryptographic researches are underway for data confidentiality.
Homomorphic encryption stores encrypted data and performs data
operation without additional decoding process. Therefore, eliminate the
possibility of the deodorization of decryption key and data will not be leaked
even if the data storage is hacked.
3) Governance
There are various attempts to improve the blockchain consensus algorithm
to prevent certain parties (person) obtaining an independent block
generation authority. This happens when a specific party has a majority of
calculation capability (Proof of Work) or the issued amount (Proof of Stake)
of a certain cryptocurrency.
Also, in order to maintain the self-sustainability of the blockchain project
itself, a fair distribution of profits among the participants and continuous
improvement is required. Therefore, many projects are attempting to meet
the demands from their ecosystems by enacting own constitutions.
4) Scalability and interoperability
As it is difficult to directly exchange data and tokens between different
blockchains, many platforms with interoperability are being developed
(connection with other blockchains, linking external data etc.). They are
aiming to solve the security issues when applying external data to the
blockchain. Also, they are putting efforts to connect with other blockchains
and to expand to more various fields.
However, blockchain technology is still in early stage and conducting
researches to overcome the current technical limitation. In order to adopt
the technology into business and everyday life, technology research, learning,
and demonstration cases are needed.
While the industry is limited, too many blockchains are competing with each
other. Advanced interoperability between networks is required for the
continuous development of blockchain. Collaboration with players from
various industries is required to create a practical platform that can be
applied to real businesses.

10

The Oracle of Blockchain

Introduction of OASISBloc
3.1 Project background
3.2 Mission and goal
3.3 Concept
3.4 Key value (data x partners = ecosystem)

3.5 Governance
3.6 Applied technology

11

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-1. Project background

Concern 1) How to apply blockchain platform into real business more easily
and quickly?
Concern 2) How to standardize and distribute various data generated from
different industries?
Concern 3) Why data owners (providers) do not receive benefits?
Concern 4) How to provide a more transparent and definite data usage
history to data providers?
Concern 5) How to trade data between different industries and to create
added value?
OASISBloc began with the above concerns and below is the core value of
OASISBloc.
OASISBloc is the first blockchainized data platform for trading useful data
and value between real businesses.
Oasis is derived from the word “ouahe” which means residence in Egyptian.
The word “oasis” is commonly referred to as “a pleasant or peaceful area or
period in the midst of a difficult or hectic place or situation” which also has a
meaning of a point connecting the route between destinations in desert.
OASISBloc is the starting point for connecting the above five concerns and it
also means to be the “core” of the virtuous cycle structure.
OASISBloc will create a new ecosystem by bringing companies together from
various business area in OASISBloc to create synergy through the
convergence of business and technology.
Companies doing their own businesses with different purposes can
participate as Domain Chain or DApp service providers.

3-2. Mission and goal

1) Platform for distributed value / data sharing and trading across various
domains
Certain data can be meaningless to some companies or individuals. But it
can be meaningful and useful to others. This can be clearly perceived
when data is systematically shared and traded within a platform. In the
OASISBloc platform, not only data but also value of each Domain Chain
can be traded through Oasis Chain.

2) Platform to create collaborative value through participation of various
industrial domains and data connection between the domains
OASISBloc requires collaboration with various Domain Chains. OASISBloc
will maintain close relationships with other Domain Chain companies
and provide opportunity to Domain Chains, so they can smoothly enter a
business that can create new added value through collaboration.

12

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-2. Mission and goal

3) Providing incentives to maximize data transactions
Data can be divided into data provided free of charge and at a cost. Data
provided free of charge is data from public agencies provided to achieve
public interest, and data provided at a cost is data necessary for
conducting business in the enterprise. OASISBloc encourages voluntary
participation in ecosystems by providing incentives directly to data
providers (owners).
4) Ensuring self-sustainability through the realization of token economy that
gives fair rewards to all actors 6 such as partners and participants of the
OASISBloc platform ecosystem
Currently, the majority of parties in the crypto industry have selfdestructive properties as they act to maximize its own interests. To build
a self-sustainable ecosystem and a fair economy, OASISBloc designs an
economic platform that is motivated from the “Ubuntu” spirit. The spirit
of Ubuntu is known as the founding principle of the South African
Republic, which means “I am, because we are.”
OASISBloc consists of two types of tokens: OASISBloc tokens, and various
tokens may be issued based on the business operation. OASISBloc
tokens will be used as a means of trading value and data between
Domain Chains, and tokens issued by Domain Chains are utility tokens
used for exchanging data only in the corresponding blockchain.
5) Realizing self-corrective governance by stipulating constitution to
maintain the ecosystem
OASISBloc has designed its own governance so that data generation,
storage, transaction, and transmission can be performed safely and
reliably in accordance with each participant’s self-interest when they
faithfully fulfill their roles. In addition, through the OIC (OASISBloc
Innovation Committee) , OASISBloc has established a way to improve the
constitution and created a governance system that is capable of
optimized operation and sustainable development. With this purpose,
OASISBloc will become the “blockchainized data trading platform” and
will lead the data business through secure and standardized data
transactions. 7

6. See chapter 3.5 “Governance” for a detailed definition of all actors in OASISBloc
7. See chapter 3.5 | 1) ② “OIC” for detailed definition

13

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-3. Concept

“It’s the Internet of Things that is just the latest market transition that is
allowing us then to connect the 99% of the unconnected,” 8 “the world is on
the threshold of a new era of innovation and change with the rise of the
Industrial Internet.” (GE. Peter C. Evans, Ph.D.).
OASISBloc was inspired by the above two phrases. In other words, the most
advanced form of Internet technology will come where things-things and
things-humans are all connected to one large network. All advanced
information and communication technologies such as big data and cloud etc.
will be integrated, where variety of data is at its core.
OASISBloc seeks to share, standardize, and trade “data” which is the key
connection according to the time flow.
Three concept keywords of OASISBloc are as below:
1) IoE (Internet of Everything)

IoE service which connects everything to the Internet can be
represented as a connection system to standardize and trade data
between different industries.
2) MoE (Management of Everything)
MoE enables real-time infrastructure operation and management,
analysis, and forecasting can create synergy effect through connection
between each field.

3) BoT (Blockchain of Things)
Blockchain platform for IoT network can be connected with various
alliances to provide blockchain based practical services.

8. Source: Cisco Live 2013, Chambers CEO

14

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-3. Concept

The above concepts can be illustrated as below

* IoE (Internet of Everything): Service where everything is connected to the Internet
* MoE (Management of Everything): Managing all services through real-time infrastructure management, analysis,
and prediction
* BoT (Blockchain of Things): Blockchain platform for IoT network

Figure 1. Concept keyword of OASISBloc

3-4. Key value
(data x partners = ecosystem)

[Role and value of data]
Data has been recognized as a resource of short amount, but now the
perception of data has turned into a vast, valuable, and renewable
resource. Data has already become a major source of economic and
social benefits. Historically, the distinction between economically
successful and unsuccessful people has been the availability of resources
such as land, labor, and capital. However, 90 percent of leaders of top
leading companies say that data is the most important and fundamental
resource as land, manpower, and capital.
As data becomes more abundant and the cost of data storage plummets,
new technologies are equipping data scientists with cutting-edge tools
that unlock valuable insights from vast amounts of data.
We are heading toward a world of almost boundless information and
nearly limitless possibilities. Consider how data is being used to make
predictions that enhance our daily lives.
Predictive data helps us know in advance whether to bring an umbrella
to work or take the bus.

15

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-4. Key value
(data x partners = ecosystem)

Traffic data is used to synchronize traffic lights, predict train arrival times,
and help us find the fastest route to get to a child’s rehearsal on time.
Wearable devices help us track our personal fitness so we can make
smarter choices to live longer, healthier lives, and scientists are analyzing
terabytes of genetic information to find new cures and develop more
effective, personalized treatments.
Through data innovation, each industry can create additional value by
various improvements.
Enterprise - makes businesses more agile, responsive, and competitive
Healthcare - helps people to live longer and healthier through better
insights
Transportation - saves time, money, fuel and even lives through
enhanced safety system such as anti-collision
Energy/environment - reduces energy consumption and improves our
environment
Manufacturing - improves the way products are designed, built, and
distributed
Finance - boosts efficiency, improves compliance, and cuts fraud
Farm culture - produces more and better food using fewer resources 9

9. What’s the Big Deal With Data? The Software Alliance BSA, 2015.
https://data.bsa.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/BSADataStudy_en.pdf

16

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-5. Governance

OASISBloc platform provides the environment for both public data sharing
and Domain Chain. Oasis Chain supports the development and maintenance
of DLT, big data, AI, and data management. Moreover, Oasis Chain will act as
an “interchain” between Domain Chains so that partners can concentrate on
their own business operations.
The OASISBloc governance prevents the misuse of data (or critical data
breaches) for incentives. It is designed to enable secure and reliable data
generation, storage, trade, and transaction while meeting the interests of
participants when they fulfill their duties.
1) definitions and the roles of OASISBloc members
① Witness Group and Block Generator
The Witness Group consists of 39 candidates of BG and of 3 levels. A BG will
be selected randomly at each level. BGs are responsible for generating and
verifying blocks so that transactions between Domain Chains can be quickly
and accurately recorded on the blockchain.
Oasis Chain uses ePoA (Proof of Authority) to ensure that block generations
and verifications are conducted by a trusted authority. Any member who fails
to comply with the regulation or acts against sustainability of the ecosystem
may be excluded from Witness Group or subject to penalties. Selection of a
new Witness Group member is decided by agreement between the current
Witness Group and the alliance.
② OIC
OIC supports platform development, transparency in management, and
project development of partners for the security of ecosystem and the
OASISBloc platform.
·Provides proposals for improvement of each Domain Chain and OASISBloc
·Improves creativity through communication and education
·Discovers for new Domain Chain projects, and decides on the scope of
support through evaluation
·Provides technical support for partners
·Provides support for data standardization of each Domain Chain and
standardization of connections between Domain Chains
·Reviews and consults for Domain Chain project progress
·Organizes the Witness Group and makes decisions on new members for
Witness Group by evaluating with the existing Witness Group
·Enacts the OASISBloc constitution and self-corrective governance
according to needs

17

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-5. Governance

③ Data owner
Data owner means the owner of the registered data in Domain Chains.
Primary data owners are entities that provide the data which they have
created or possess. Secondary data owners can be DApps of the Domain
Chain who process the primary data and create a secondary data. Data
owners can receive rewards and share among them at a specific rate which
are the revenue generated through trading data. The sharing rate of revenue
is decided through the policy of each Domain Chain depending on the type of
data.
④ Data provider
Data providers can either sell or provide data for free. They get rewards for
selling data. Data providers are obliged to generate and provide accurate
data when transactions occur. If the data provider fails to fulfill the
obligations, penalty of cutting certain shares may be given. This is to ensure
the responsibility of the data provider for managing and delivering data.
⑤ Data user
Data users are entities who search and purchase (use) data from a single or
multiple Domain Chains. Data users can search for the type, format and the
price of data they are willing to purchase.
⑥ Data keeper
Data keepers receive rewards for storing the data according to the storage
space and time. They are obliged to keep the data securely, ensure
availability, and accurate transfer of data according to the transaction. If data
keepers fail to fulfill the above three obligations, they may receive a penalty
for incineration of shares. This is to ensure the availability of data for
accurate delivery and management of data.
⑦ Data Standardization Officer (DSO)
DSO defines each type of data, properties of the data type, and the
transaction method in each Domain Chain. Data registrants (or owners)
should follow the standards defined by a DSO when registering data.
DSO can be independently selected by the Domain Chain founder. The
Domain Chain founder may perform the role of the DSO personally, or assign
the role to one of the Domain Chain participants.
⑧ DApp service provider
DApp service providers are entities that provide services using SDK or API of
OASISBloc, or use the data gathered by each Domain Chain. For example,
traffic information can be used to provide available parking spots at a specific
time and pay fees with cryptocurrency, or provide customized advertisement
service by analyzing user patterns. A DApp service provider receives fees
from service users in OSB tokens or Domain Chain tokens. A portion of the
revenue generated from providing services, can be paid to the data owner of
the corresponding data used for the service.

18

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-5. Governance

⑨ DApp service user
DApp service users can use the DApp services provided through OASISBloc.
Depending on the various types of services, the user can pay for the services
or send their data.
⑩ Constitution
All OASISBloc ecosystem participants must comply with the OASISBloc
constitution.
The OIC enacts the constitution and establishes the amendment procedure.
If necessary, the amendment procedure may be proposed by various parties
in OASISBloc, and OIC can amend the constitution according to a fair
amendment procedure.

2) Importance and platform application of standard data model
Through blockchain, CIA (Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability) can be
added to data, thereby enabling to protect personal information
according to data sharing guidelines. In order to adopt CIA to data, a
data standardization model including data utilization method is required
while ensuring the quality of data. However, data standardization in a
decentralized environment such as the blockchain is not easy. Therefore,
OASISBloc will build its own data governance and manage the data
standards. Moreover, a Data Standardization Officer (DSO) will be
selected from each Domain Chain where the DSO will apply data
standards to build a database. DSO will be selected through voting or by
a trustful authority or domain managers. In the future, important
decisions about data governance will be decided by the OASISBloc
Innovation Committee (OIC).
A standard model for the data gathered is required to maintain the
quality of data. Non-standardized data models make it difficult to
exchange and reuse the data between Domain Chains. A standard data
model will allow everyone to use the same data model for creating
opportunities for global business. Data standardization is also required
for data exchange and application service interworking between various
IoT models.

19

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-5. Governance

New services can be created and introduced by enabling data exchange
between Domain Chains.

- Data exchange between parking chain and healthcare chain enables
paramedics to use the available parking spot for emergency
dispatches.
- Data exchange between building management chain and mobility
chain allows selling solar photovoltaic electricity produced from
buildings to electric vehicle charging, instead of selling generated
electricity to power exchanges when the price is low.
- Data exchange between air environment information chain and mobility
chain allows vehicles (car, truck, bicycle etc.) to drive a route with
pleasant air environment.
- Data exchange between e-health chain and home appliances chain
enables monitoring household appliances and analyzing the usage
pattern. If the usual use of household appliances is not detected, any
health problems or emergency (especially elderly people) can be
expected and families or hospitals can notify immediately by receiving an
automatic emergency call from the system.
In addition to data standardization the task of creating context data is
needed to provide more seamless services to users, such as the services
exemplified above. Data context is a way of characterizing the context of
one or more objects. Through context data, all related data and
elements between users and services (eg. software applications) will be
organized. In a world where IoT is commonly applied, context data will
provide important clues to understand the interaction between IoT and
users. 10
When creating a new service by integrating data from different Domain
Chains, sometimes, each Domain Chain uses the different field name
(metadata) which have the same meaning or uses the same field name
(metadata), with a different presentation style.

10. ETSI ISG CIM introduction. 2017.9, ETSI

20

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc

Figure 2 : Applying standardized data model

3) Structure of OASISBloc alliance
OASISBloc forms a global alliance. The OASISBloc alliance strives for
platform innovation and providing services. The activities of the alliance
will be the key success of the platform and will provide high reliability
and continuous services to users.
Currently, the alliance consists of 18 different industries and will
continue to expand.
Every partner provides their unique data and services, and they have
united in OASISBloc platform to provide convenient and seamless
services throughout the entire network.
The OASISBloc alliance is composed of Foundation Oasis Ltd.
(Foundation Oasis), OIC, and partners.
① Foundation Oasis
Foundation Oasis leads development and provision of the
OASISBloc platform. It also supports OIC activities for platform
enhancement and also supports initial consulting and marketing of
each Domain Chain. The scope of support shall be determined
through evaluation and vote by the OIC.

21

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-5. Governance

② OIC
OIC is a committee which is composed of experts from each sector to
create and operate a healthy ecosystem. Below is the structure and
role of the OIC.
- Structure of OIC
·OIC members: Foundation Oasis, representatives of Domain Chain
partners, experts from each industry
·Divisions of OIC: development division, operation division, data
division, DApp division, and finance division
- Role of OIC
·Operates the OASISBloc Domain Chain Partners Program
·Consults and evaluates the business model (business capability,
technology etc.) of Domain Chains
·Connects with other Domain Chains in OASISBloc and connects with
demands (customers) within the platform
·Monitors each project status and provides suggestions for project
development to both OASISBloc and each Domain Chain
·Consults on data standardization for both data exchange between
Domain Chains and each industry
·Discovers new competitive partners by objective and credible
evaluation through collaborations with VCs.
·Manages and operates OASISBloc Savings (OASISBloc ecosystem
development fund)
③ Partner
Partners are participants who operate Domain Chains in the
OASISBloc platform
- Role
·Operates and establishes the project structure of each Domain Chain
·Cooperates with the duties of own project development and overall
operation of the OASIS platform
·Consults and implements the proposals for improvement and checks
the project status of Domain Chains proposed by the OIC
- Benefits
·Business mentoring and guidance provided by the OIC
·Consulting for business model and guidelines for token economy
·Blockchain development training and consulting
·Able to use various SDK and emulation tool provided by OASISBloc
·Supports training for core, networking, and interface development for
Domain Chain configuration
·Able to access development community for activating the ecosystem
·Able to access the network of OIC for fund raise
·Able to use business incubation program and consulting program for
the funding process for each project according to the characteristics
of Domain Chains

22

The Oracle of Blockchain

3. Introduction of OASISBloc
3-6. Applied technology

OASISBloc is a blockchain project that links distributed value and data in
various industries. OASISBloc will solve the problems of data accessibility
from worldwide and overcome the limitations of current blockchains that are
limited to certain industries. Thus, creating collaborative values. 11

1) Data trading blockchain
The data transaction protocol of OASISBloc allows transparent data
transactions between data buyers and sellers. All data registration and
transaction details are recorded on the blockchain ledger. 12
2) Data storage with layer 2 structure
The data registered by data providers will be dispersedly stored in FEDSS.
FEDSS is an off-chain and file system with the 2-layer structure. When
transactions occur in the on-chain, the data stored in the FEDSS will be
securely transmitted to the buyer. This structure complements blockchain
scalability limits for data storage. 13
3) Interconnecting data transaction through interchain technology
OASISBloc consists of multiple data sharing blockchains for each field.
OASISBloc provides a single data trading protocol that enables data trading
for various data trading blockchains by interconnecting them. Here, it does
not only include Domain Chains but also other blockchains. 14
4) Blockchain oracle
Blockchain oracle is required in order to interconnect with other data sharing
blockchains. Through the blockchain oracle, data registered on other
blockchains can be obtained. The blockchain oracle allows users to purchase
data registered in other external blockchains. 15
5) Data security
OASISBloc provides technology for the three elements in data security (CIA,
confidentiality, integrity, and availability). This ensures safe data transactions.16
6) Easy configuration
OASISBloc allows easy establishment of Domain Chain through parameter
configuration for conveniently securing data trading infrastructure.17
OASISBloc provides a variety of libraries and APIs for convenient data use and
transactions.

11. See chapter 4.1 | 2) “Technical support of blockchain for data sharing
applications”
12. See chapter 4.1 | 1) “Data trading platform based on blockchain”
13. See chapter 4.2. | 1) “Domain Chain”
14. See chapters 4.2.| 2) “Oasis Chain” and 4.2.3 “Blockchain interconnection and
value exchange for data transactions”
15. See chapter 4.2 | 3) “Blockchain interconnection and value exchange for data
transactions”
16. See chapter 4.5 | 1) “Data security”
17. See chapters 3.5 “Governance” and 8.2 “Plans for partnership”

23

The Oracle of Blockchain

OASISBloc platform
4.1 Platform features
4.2 Blockchain configuration
4.3 Platform configuration
4.4 Consensus algorithm: ePoA

4.5 Security
4.6 Process of data transaction
4.7 Role of data keeper and reward

24

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-1. Platform features

Figure 3. Five steps for data trading

1) Data trading platform based on blockchain
Data sellers and data buyers can trade data through the OASISBloc platform.
Details of data registration and transaction history are recorded on the
blockchain. Therefore, it is easy to find out to which data is supplied to where,
which enables easy management of data distribution. Also, rewards for the
data provider can be fairly given.
Data transactions in OASISBloc consists of five major steps as follows:

① Register data
Data seller can register data on the marketplace to sell. During this process,
the data seller searches for the type of pre-defined data and inputs the
basic information required according to each data type.
② Store data
When the data seller registers data, the data is stored in the storage of the
designated data keeper. Data registration and storage history are recorded
in each Domain Chain.
③ Search data
The data buyer searches data on the marketplace. Marketplace represents
data information matching the buyer’s search condition among the data
registered in the Domain Chain.
④ Buy data
The data buyer searches and purchases data at the marketplace. The data
buyer pays the seller in cryptocurrency as a fee equal to the data price.
The details of the purchase history of data are recorded on the blockchain.
⑤ Send data
When the data is purchased, the purchased data is encrypted and
transmitted to the buyer. The transmitted data can only be decrypted with
the buyer’s private key. Data transaction is completed once data is sent.
2) Technical support of blockchain for data sharing applications
Data can be shared in various industrial fields. Data transactions should be
able to take place in various industries such as digital content for audio and
video, medical data for patient records, smart transportation for automobile
data. Each field has different characteristics. For example, the formats, types,
method of providing, and method of transaction etc. may vary according to
the industry. Therefore, different governances are required for different
blockchains depending on the characteristics.

25

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-1. Platform features

OASISBloc provides a flexible environment by configuring the blockchain
according to the characteristics of each industry.
3) Providing protocol for data trading
OASISBloc provides a protocol for trading data that can be commonly used in
various data sharing blockchains. Through the OASISBloc data transaction
protocol, data sellers can register data in the appropriate domain, and data
buyers can purchase the necessary data from multiple Domain Chains. This
protocol can support transactions not only from Domain Chains in the
OASISBloc platform, but also from other data sharing blockchains linked
through the blockchain oracle.

4-2. Blockchain configuration

OASISBloc provides data sharing blockchain to support various industry fields.
Data trading blockchain consists of the following two types of chains to
support global data transactions.

Figure 4. Configuration of OASISBloc
blockchain

1) Domain Chain
Domain Chain is a blockchain to share data for a single industry. The data
registration details of who registered which data, and the data purchase
details of who purchased the data are recorded. Appropriate governance can
be configured according to the type of data, data provider, method of
providing data, and method of transaction in the domain.
Domain Chain consists of an on-chain node that records data transactions
and registration, and an off-chain node that stores and transmits the actual
data. The following figure shows the architecture of a Domain Chain that
interacts with the user app.

26

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform

Figure 5. Architecture of Domain Chain
that interacts with user app

Users can trade data through the application UI. Data transaction such as for
data registration/search/purchase is handled through the on-chain data trade
interface module. The data transaction history is recorded on the domain
blockchain. When a data seller registers data, the data is transferred through
a data delivery module once the data buyer receives the purchased data. To
increase the security level and operation efficiency, the registered data by
data sellers is dispersed and stored in OASISBloc-wide storages. If necessary,
the data may be stored in storages built inside the domain chain
2) Oasis Chain
Oasis Chain is a hub chain that connects all Domain Chains. By providing
value and data exchange between Domain Chains, users can trade data with
Domain Chains through the OASISBloc platform. Oasis Chain records details
such as user account interconnection history, data transaction history, and
Domain Chain history linked to OASISBloc etc. in each Domain Chain.

Figure 6. Key module configuration of Oasis Chain node

27

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-2. Blockchain configuration

Oasis Chain includes data trade interface module that supports data
transactions, Domain Chain management module linked to Oasis Chain, value
exchange transaction module, and blockchain module. When a data buyer
searches data through the app, the data trade interface module of Oasis
Chain confirms the data registration information of the related Domain Chain
with the data corresponding to the user’s query. The purchased data is
transferred from the off-chain node of the Domain Chain.
3) Blockchain interconnection and value exchange for data transactions
OASISBloc not only interconnects with Domain Chains in the Oasis Chain but
also with other data sharing blockchains in order to enable data transactions
that occur between multiple data sharing blockchains. OASISBloc provides
oracle SDK by importing data from the corresponding blockchain for
interconnecting with other data sharing blockchains. The oracle enables
users to search, purchase, and register data in other blockchains through the
data transaction protocol of OASISBloc.
Oasis Chain supports data transactions through token exchange between
registered Domain Chains and Oasis Chain. For example, if Domain Chains A
and B are registered in the OASISBloc platform as shown in the figure below,
the data buyer can use OASISBloc tokens to purchase data from Domain
Chain A, or may use the tokens commonly used in Domain Chain B instead of
OASISBloc tokens.

Figure 7. Example of value exchange
trading module of OASISBloc platform

When a data buyer purchases data from Domain Chain A and pays with
OASISBloc tokens, the value exchange trading module checks the value of the
corresponding Domain Chain token and the value of OASISBloc token.
OASISBloc token is then deducted from the data buyer’s account as much as
the data price according to the above value exchange ratio. The data seller
will be paid for its data with the tokens of Domain Chain A. Transaction
details are recorded in the corresponding Domain Chain and also in the Oasis
Chain.

28

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-2. Blockchain configuration

The value ratio of each Domain Chain token and OASISBloc token is
determined by the market price. Domain Chain tokens must be listed on an
external exchange and traded in order to be used. When Domain Chains are
connecting to Oasis Chain, every Domain Chain must go through the
OASISBloc alliance.
4) IDC (Inter Domain Chain Communication)
People interact in various ways - from simple conversations in everyday life to
intellectual activities such as writing and work of art. Beyond simple
expressions between people, people express their thoughts and respond to it.
And It is what we call the communication.
OASISBloc platform enables parties to interact and exchange value. The
underlying technology of data transactions in a blockchain is IDC.
In other words, IDC is a technology for communications between blockchains.
IDC is the underlying technology of OASISBloc’s ecosystem expansion. It
enables the transfer of funds for data transactions and communication
between Domain Chains.
In addition, IDC will make possible to transfer value to other blockchains that
have their own tokens. This is the goal of OASISBloc and the IDC technology
will be used in order to expand this goal.
OASISBloc focused on four key elements of IDC:
① Merkle proof 18 for improving validation speed between blockchains
Since blockchain has a monoculture structure, one error damages the
entire ledger. With this weakness, validation is essential for
communication between different chains. When attempting
communication between chains and if the opponent chain is in the
reorganization state, the block becomes unreliable. Therefore, the status
of the opponent chain should be checked. LCV (Light Client Validation) is
used to validate the opponent chain to solve the current constraints of
resource and time for full node validation. LCV is not a method of verifying
all the blocks but a Proof of Completeness method which proves that
there is no gap in the transaction history of the chain to be verified.

18. EOS.IO Technical White Paper v2 - Merkle Proofs for Light Client Validation (LCV)

29

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-2. Blockchain configuration

② Exchange module 19 for exchange rate of value transactions
The value of tokens issued in each Domain Chain are all different. As there
are exchange rates and exchange bureaus in international currency
transactions, there are also exchange rates and exchange centers in
cryptocurrency. However, when using currency exchange, there are
problems such as high commissions, time consuming, government
regulation and control, complexity, and exposure to risk of hacking etc. In
order to solve the above problems, the exchange module is designed with
the principle to make direct transactions between nodes, and to be
created when connecting end-to-end nodes for generating transactions.
In this structure, Hashed Time Lock Contract (HTLC, which is a basic
technology of Atomic swap) is used for payments. HTLC is a combination
of timelock (time limitation technology for transactions) and hashlock
(where a hash value must be presented before the contract is fulfilled)
technologies.
The exchange module is designed based on the existing HTLC technology
and is the basic technology for the swap contract as proposed in ③ below.
③ Transactions by swap contract between chains
The smart contract in Domain Chain guarantees integrity if the function
details (contract conditions) and function inputs (contract execution
states) are shared. In this case, the function result does not need to be
shared separately through blockchain. This applies equally to transactions
between chains. Swap contract which is similar to smart contract is
created on both chains in the transaction. The function details are
communicated with a protocol similar to TCP (Transmission Control
Protocol). Multisig method is applied for the security of both chains and
the timelock of swap contract. Protocol is used to check irreversible
verification and reorganization status of the block of the opponent chain.

19. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Hashed_Timelock_Contracts

30

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-3. Platform configuration

OASISBloc platform includes Oasis Chain and each Domain Chain registered in
Oasis Chain. The platform supports integrated data trading function between
Domain Chains. Depending on the Domain Chain, the platform may work
with existing legacy systems to provide characteristics for data transactions
based on blockchain. OASISBloc platform consists of five layers: application,
service, platform, blockchain, and data layers.

Figure 8. Structure of OASISBloc platform
layers

1) Application layer
The Application layer is for DApps that provide data trading functions or
provide services that leverage data.

2) Service layer
The Service layer is for services running on OASISBloc platform.
Configurations may vary depending on the Domain Chain. Service layer
includes big data analysis using Domain Chain data, AI service for data
learning, blockchain oracle, and data marketplace etc.

31

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-3. Platform configuration

3) Platform layer
The platform layer provides various functions for data transactions and
handles user’s data transactions. The data trade interface provides
interfaces for registration, search, and purchase of data. Transactions
through this interface are reflected on the blockchain layer. Data delivery
performs data upload and download to FEDSS for user’s data registration
and purchase. The data delivery module verifies that the person who
wants to download the data has the right to access the data. If verification
is successful, the data is encrypted and transmitted, and the encrypted
data can only be decrypted with the authentication key of the data
purchaser. Exchange between OASISBloc tokens and Domain Chain tokens
are handled in “Exchange” to enable data transactions in multiple Domain
Chains registered to the Oasis Chain. The Domain Chain oracle is provided
to link with other blockchains for data trading. The platform layer provides
API and SDK to handle these functions.
4) Blockchain layer
OASISBloc platform provides 2 types of blockchains: Oasis Chain and
Domain Chain. Details of all actions related to data transactions such as
data registration history, purchase history, and data type are recorded in
the Domain Chain in which data is registered. On the other hand,
settlement details for value exchange through OASISBloc tokens and
Domain Chain registration history are recorded in the Oasis Chain. Each
data transaction is processed based on smart contracts. Also, by managing
data access with blockchain accounts, only authorized person can view or
modify the data.
5) Data layer
The data layer is for data transactions, OASISBloc platform establishes a
P2P network-based distributed file system which is called FEDSS. FEDSS
has the following technical advantages: First of all, unlike the HTTP web,
ecosystem can remains stable even if some nodes are disconnected. It can
transfer high-capacity files quickly and efficiently.
Actors can be classified into registrants, buyers, keepers depending on the
data layer and the type of data transaction. Rewards are given differently
according to the above types.

32

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-3. Platform configuration

Depending on the Domain Chain, the data type or the method of providing
may be different. Therefore, some of the data layer can be replaced by the
legacy system. For example, if the legacy system directly stores and transmits
data, the authentication process that verifies that the person using the data
is the person who purchased the data, or the transaction between the data
provider and the buyer, can be interconnected to handle through the
OASISBloc platform.

4-4. Consensus algorithm: ePoA

The consensus algorithm in the Oasis Chain and Domain Chains of the
OASISBloc platform is ePoA (equitable Proof of Authority). The feature of
ePoA is that it is very fast and efficient to select a BG or reach a consensus on
generating a block. On the other hand, ePoA has a relatively centralized
feature as the authority can be concentrated to one side. To mitigate this,
OASISBloc ensures open opportunities for anyone contributing to the
ecosystem to volunteer as a BG. The OIC can allow among the volunteers,
who have contributed to the ecosystem and deemed to be responsible for
the community management role, to be a member of the Witness Group.
The Witness Group consists of 39 nodes and performs the block generation
and verification. They also disclose block generating process and blockchain
history transparently so that anyone can see the transactions, block
verification, and irreversibility of the blockchain.
The Witness Group has the BG level, which has equitable selection
opportunities and security by applying randomness to each level of selection
method.

Figure 9. Witness Group: BG level and random selection

33

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-4. Consensus algorithm: ePoA

In OASISBloc platform, most transactions are expected to occur by Domain
Chains. OASISBloc will begin with at least 13 witness group and 7 BGs but will
gradually expand up to 39 witness group and 23 BGs. Through the procedure
of OASISBloc governance, OIC will decide the expansion of witness group and
BG according to the transaction volume and the number of Domain Chains.
Witness Group is divided into 3 levels according to the contribution. Within
each level, cyclical random selection method is structured to provide fair
opportunity to participate in block generation.
In the case of Witness Group consisting of 39 and BG consisting of 23 : 16
BGs for level 1, 13 BGs for level 2, and 10 BGs for level 3. For every round, a
total of 23 BGs are selected: 8 BGs, 8 BGs, and 7 BGs respectively for each
level.
The block time of Oasis Chain is 1s, and in the case of 23 BGs, each BG
generates 12 blocks. A total of 276 blocks are generated per round. At the
beginning of each round, 23 BGs are selected randomly according to their
basic requirements and contribution. The selected BGs create blocks in the
order agreed by more than 16 BGs.
The participation requirements of the Witness Group will be determined by
OIC based on technology, transparency, and infrastructure. And moreover,
openness to participation of a new Witness.
The basic requirements of BG selection method are as follows:
① Deposit
② Compliance to regulations
③ Contribution
Deposit is the “minimum equity deposit,” which is required to be at least
500,000 OSB. A robust method to measure the healthy sustainability of a
blockchain network is by measuring the amount of tokens held by a BG. If the
BG has the more to loses, the more responsibility the BG will have, and
therefore, the BG will be cautious in making decisions accordingly.
Contribution is based on trust and reputation for contributing to ecosystem
activation and platform sustainability. The Oasis alliance can coordinate the
above criteria in consultation according to the situation and evaluate
whether the regulation is fairly complied. BG is required to generate a block
at the right time with the designated order. Based on the role BGs are playing,
their performance is evaluated while the grade is reflected in the BG
Compliance to regulations. In addition, weights for the above requirements
can be adjusted according to the level and be reflected in the BG selection
criteria.
By using ePoA for consensus algorithm, It is possible to improve the
transaction speed with small number of nodes like EOS, while maintaining
security that of large networks like Bitcoin or Ethereum by randomly selecting
candidates that meet the basic requirements.

34

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-5. Security

OASISBloc is a distributed ledger system that provides high security and trust.
Basic transaction can be made through asymmetric key encryption with
securing CIA. The technical element of key generation (which is the basis of
the 3 elements of CIA) is based on proxy re-encryption so that no one can
own the original data other than the trading parties.
In addition, a two-step system is built to defend against DDoS attacks. First,
the ePoA consensus algorithm is established to minimize the exposure of BG,
which could be a target. Second, the full node that is open to users, is
separated from the BG node that produces the block. In this way, the VPN
service (that has integrity, mutual authentication, and access control etc.)
maintains the block generation through the trusted BG network, and protects
the OASISBloc network even during an attack on the full node.
1) Data security
Blockchain is a system designed based on the philosophy that all nodes
equally share the ledger. However, the disadvantage of this structure is
that the size of the ledger becomes larger, and if the ledger contains data
that includes files, the size will be enormous. Therefore, OASISBloc aims to
minimize the size of the ledger by creating a separate chain (off-chain) for
data storage.
① Data confidentiality
Since fragments of data are encrypted and dispersedly stored to be
transmitted to data buyers, data keepers do not have the ownership of
data while only data sellers and buyers have access to data. Due to
the concept of “data access rights,” unpermitted (or unauthorized)
keys cannot use the data or services.
② Data integrity
Based on the policy that “information and data may be seen, but
cannot be changed,” hash values of all data in the off-chain are
extracted in each data processing process and recorded in the on-chain.
By doing so, data keepers and buyers are able to check the hash values
once they receive the data and validate their integrity.

35

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-5. Security

③ Data availability
If data buyers have the data access right, they should be able to earn
data at any time upon request. The storage server where fragments of
data are duplicated and stored is called a keeper node, and the group
of the keeper nodes is called a data storage. In case a problem occurs
in a keeper node where the encrypted data fragments are dispersedly
stored, missing out data fragments, each data fragment is stored in
multiple keeper nodes of the data storage.
④ Data life cycle and deletion
OASISBloc, which deals with data transactions, requires smoothness in
deleting data that has reached the end of its life cycle due to security
issues. For this, the FEDSS was configured to secure the storage
capacity, data that are not pinned are sent to garbage after a certain
period of time. Data that are traded through tokens are basically pinned.
Deleting a transaction on a blockchain is not possible. Therefore, we
designed the data lifecycle by creating a new transaction which contains
deleted data on FEDSS, and update in the blockchain.
In other words, we designed the data lifecycle through data deletion
on FEDSS.
2) Attacks
① Evolution and commercialization of DDoS attacks
There are various types of DDoS attacks, but the purpose is always the
same - to slow down the speed of online resources or to prevent them
from responding, thereby giving financial damages or damaging the
reputations of the victims. The patterns and methods of attacks are
constantly evolving.
DDoS attacks have established themselves in the market as a profit
model, which is the reason they are constantly evolving in size and type.
Given these trends of DDoS attacks, even dPoS blockchains such as EOS
can never be safe from attacks. However, OASISBloc is designed to
prepare against DDoS attacks.

36

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-5. Security

② Establishment of trust network for ePoA and BG
The structure of the network is designed so that the full node (that is
open to DApp or general users) and the BG node (that generate blocks)
are separated into different networks. The data of the BG node is shared
exclusively among the BGs without disclosing it externally, thereby
avoiding a direct DDoS attack. Even if a public full node is undergoing a
DDoS attack, the BG node is unaffected. Therefore, it is designed to
have little effect on the OASISBloc network itself.
As a method of network configuration, trusted network is configured
through the VPN connection between BGs. It is possible to fight against
system paralyzation attacks such as DDoS by establishing trust network
based on security functions such as integrity, mutual authentication,
and access control of the VPN service.

4-6. Process of data transaction

1) Data registration
① Requesting for data registration
The data provider checks the size and hash value of the data to be
provided, and the data provider fragments the data into multiple pieces
before encrypting them. With this information, the data provider
requests a data registration to the corresponding domain. (The request
for data registration is processed through smart contract of the Domain
Chain.)
② Checking whether data registration is possible
The data provider verifies that the storage purchased for data
registration is valid. Storage is available for immediate purchase.
③ Concluding contract for data registration
The capacity of the data provider’s storage decreases by the size of the
registered data.
④ Transferring data
The data fragments from the data provider are uploaded to the data
keeper once the contract is concluded, and the transaction is recorded
on the blockchain
2) Data purchase
① Searching data
Data buyers can search for data they want to buy.
② Making payments
Data buyers can purchase data with OSB tokens or Domain Chain
tokens. If a buyer makes the payment with OSB tokens, the exchange
module will automatically exchange OSB tokens to the relevant domain
tokens. The exchanged domain tokens will be paid to the data provider.

37

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-6. Process of data transaction

③ Transferring data
Once the payment details are recorded on the blockchain, the data is
encrypted and sent from the data keeper to the buyer.
④ Decrypting data
The data buyer can decrypt the purchased data with own private key.
⑤ Verifying data integrity
After decrypting the data, the buyer can extract the hash value of the
original data and verify data integrity by checking whether the hash
value matches with the hash value of the data registration details that is
recorded on the blockchain.
⑥ Concluding transaction
Once the hash value of the original data is identical, the purchase data
is recorded on the blockchain and the payment is made to the data
provider.

4-7. Role of data keeper and its reward OASISBloc is a blockchain system for P2P based data transactions. As the
peer participating in the network is unable to access the network 24 hours a
day, a data keeper’s node is established for network bandwidth expansion,
network hierarchy stability, and scalability etc.
Data keeper can be rewarded according to the provision of space and the
consumption of time for keeping the data.
1) Concept of data keeper’s node

FEDSS selects the nearest node first and sends and receives files. Therefore,
the users can act as a data keeper to improve communication speed and file
accessibility. The physical characteristics of this keeper are a combination of
KaZaA’s “Super Node” concept and BitTorrent’s “Seed” concept. It can be
defined as “it increases the possibility to receive stable blocks 24 hours a day
as there is a nearest super-peer that has large number of seeds.” However,
the difference between a super-peer and KaZaA is that the keeper is not
automatically selected by the system, but is made by the user’s choice and
rewarded accordingly. When the data keeper receives a request for
transmitting the stored data fragments, the keeper verifies the smart
contract as to whether the data buyer has access to the data, encrypts the
data fragmentation decryption key with a public key for access right
authentication, and transmits the key with the encrypted data fragments.
2) Configuration of data storage
Each data keeper is allowed to sign up for the existing storage or build a new
storage when registering as a keeper on OASISbloc. Each storage can
accommodate four or more keepers. Keepers should set the total storage
capacity in their keeper nodes. The total available capacity of the data
storage is determined based on the total storage capacity of a keeper who
sets the least available capacity among the keepers.

38

The Oracle of Blockchain

4. OASISBloc platform
4-7. Role of data keeper and its reward 2) Rewards for keeping data (time and space)
As a data keeper of OASISBloc, data keepers provide a certain amount of
space on its hard disk and receives appropriate rewards accordingly. Reward
is also made according to the time for keeping the block. Time and space are
the basis of the reward concept for data keepers of OASISBloc, both of which
are calculated by appropriate reward formulas.

39

The Oracle of Blockchain

Service model
5.1 Overview
5.2 Service cases of Domain Chain
5.3 Case of utilizing service by converging data between Domain Chains
5.4 Case of solving current problems by converging data between Domain Chains

40

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-1. Overview

Enterprises that are already running a business face many challenges when
dealing with other companies. Many enterprises expect stable and efficient
business operations by applying blockchain to various business areas because
of the characteristics of blockchain such as saving cost, time and securing
reliability. Most enterprises use private blockchain to avoid sensitive data
leakage and to solve the problems according to the characteristics of each
business process.
OASISBloc aims to support blockchain business for enterprises by providing
the following two service models.
1) BaaS model (Blockchain-as-a-Service)
There are various barriers such as technology, cost, and time for
companies to newly adopt blockchain into their business. OASISBloc
provides solutions to eliminate such barriers.
2) DaaS model (Data-as-a-Service)
As data trading and processing become more active, the data trading
platform must be transparent and the data provider should gain fair
profits. OASISBloc plans to provide data services based on blockchain that
will enable the greatest efficiency and business value to enterprises.
By applying blockchain to existing business areas, companies can implement
an optimal management system and increase revenue. This allows them to
create a variety of services.
First, sell data to other companies which need the data.
Second, create new businesses through data collection and analysis.
Third, purchase data to solve the existing business problems.
Below are seven service cases of Domain Chain.

41

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

[Healthcare Chain]
·Current problems
1) Patient’s medical data are used only for a short period of time and in
most of the time, they are scattered and stored in several hospitals.
2) Patients repeated go through unnecessary treatments due to limited
sharing of medical records between hospitals.
3) Patient’s medical data are being sold within the medical field. However,
the patients do not know how the data is being used and do not gain any
benefit from it.
·Solutions through blockchain
1) The distributed ledger technology of the blockchain allows to search and
track the data that are scattered all over different hospitals by the
patient’s private key.
2) Hospitals can accelerate the exchange of medical data with other
hospitals by providing tokens as means of incentives.
3) The shared distributed ledger between hospitals, patients, and medical
industry facilitates data flow surveillance by wallet-based consent system
to utilize patient’s data enables precise control of medical data.

42

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

·Benefits
1) Patients can receive precision medicine service based on clinical data,
genetic data, and life log data that are gathered from various medical
institutions through the distributed ledger technology.
2) Token incentives in data transactions facilitates the exchange of medical
information between hospitals and individuals-hospitals, thus eliminating
unnecessary testing and reducing national medical expenses.

3) Blockchain and consent mechanism technology enables precise control of
data flow, preventing misuse of patient data and black market leakage
problems.

Figure 10. Transaction of medical data using Healthcare Chain platform

43

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

[Gold Chain]
(Application of Gold Chain must be consulted with a jurisdiction legal expert)
·Current problems
1) Investors want to invest in physical gold but there are concerns for theft.
There is also a big spread between the purchase price and the selling
price where the burden of VAT and commission is high.
2) Even if investors want to trade abroad, they lose money with their trading
volume due to tariffs.
3) There is an ETF-type gold investment method. However, the tax burden
on profits is high.
·Solutions through blockchain
1) Issuing tokens with gold as collateral can be stored easily where it
reduces the burden of commission for the transaction.
2) It is possible to trade without border restrictions through the gold-backed
token exchange which is connectable from all over the world.
3) Taxes and fees are incurred when the token is exchanged to physical gold.
However, the transaction between tokens do not incur tax for the gain.

44

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

·Benefits
1) By reducing the spread between purchases and sales through a goldbacked token, it can meet the demand of both long and short-term
holders, enabling the gold market to grow.
2) Blockchain enables borderless transactions which are recorded in the
transparent distributed ledger and suppresses the outflow to the black
market.

3) The token issuer can deposit physical gold in a certified institution and
store it safely.

Figure 11. Gold Coin issuing process through the Gold Chain platform

45

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

[Retail chain]
·Current problems
1) Due to fierce competition, the revenue of small business owners is
decreasing as well as the burden on commissions paid to the current
payment systems is increasing.
2) Franchise owners are demanding higher franchise fee in return for
providing logistics, inventory, manpower, and marketing services which
reduce the profitability of franchisees.
3) Many companies have an in-house cafeteria for employees but it is
difficult to consider the ethnic and religious tastes of all employees.
Companies are using paper vouchers which can be lost and difficult to
prevent exchange activities that are not in line with the voucher usage
rules.
·Solutions through blockchain
1) With QR codes and blockchain based payment system, users can buy
products and services without banks, credit card companies, or other
financial intermediaries.
2) Logistics, inventory, HR, and marketing service providers can be
connected to the blockchain and enable to provide one-stop services
with smart contracts.
3) Smart contract based blockchain voucher can be issued to allow
employees to use vouchers within the rules set by the company.

46

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

·Benefits
1) By simplifying the payment process with blockchain, it is possible to
prevent transaction errors in advance and reduce labor costs. Thereby,
improving the profitability of small size business owners.
2) Smart contract based cooperative system can operate more efficiently
than the existing franchises, therefore the purchase price can be lowered
by strengthening bargaining power of small size business owners.

3) Companies can make efficient employees’ welfare scheme by using a
blockchain voucher.

Figure 12. Utilization of blockchain voucher through Retail Chain platform

47

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

[Media chain]
·Current problems
1) Building a standardized set of data for retail transactions is difficult,
making it impossible to fully identify consumer data. (Eg., Credit card
company: knowing the identity of the consumer and the price of the
purchase item but not knowing what the consumer has purchased. Shops
and POS: knowing what the consumer has purchased but not knowing
the identity of the consumer.)

2) Although store owners pay high price for online advertising, they are
unable to find out the exact effects. Also, it is difficult to find out
customer inflow through handing out leaflets.
3) Small and medium advertising platform companies are trying to utilize a
point system to attract customers, but as a result, there is a limit to
expand to large-scale campaign because it is a zero-sum game.
·Solutions through blockchain
1) Blockchain’s distributed ledger technology enables to acquire and analyze
the integrated information of consumers with their consent of the
scattered data accumulated by each company.
2) Consumer-centric, integrated data can show how many customers have
been exposed to ads. This makes it possible to identify the effectiveness
of advertising.
3) Through tokenization of points, small and medium marketing platforms
can choose a new alternative that facilitates marketing investment.

48

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

·Benefits
1) The advertisement management system for advertisers, media
companies, and advertising agencies, it is possible to increase the
reliability of data provided to each other with blockchain
2) As owners can measure and identify the advertising effects instantly, it
can improve the profit of the business by saving unnecessary advertising
costs.

3) With the acquisition of large-scale marketing investment through tokens,
small and medium sized platform companies can expect a fair
competition with major companies.

Figure 13. AD activity process through Media Chain platform

49

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

[Game Chain]
·Current problems
1) Constant fraud incidents occur due to the anonymity of the opponent
when trading items within a game through the item trading website.
2) Every player’s effort can be useless if the game service ends.
3) Newly launched games spend a huge amount for marketing to attract
new customers as assets within a game such as cyber money, items, and
characters collected by the player over time cannot be utilized in other
games.
·Solutions through blockchain
1) Item trading with an unknown can be safely done through the application
of P2P electronic cash system provided by the blockchain.
2) For most online games, services may end according to the company’s
management decision, but the game through DApp is decentralized
where the service can be maintained forever as long as the network
supports it.
3) The player’s game assets are recorded on the irreversible ledger of the
blockchain, making it possible to utilize the existing game assets even in
newly launched games.

50

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

·Benefits
1) The use of blockchain escrow eliminates the risk of fraud because the
exchange of game item and payment are done simultaneously. The game
company and the exchange can split the profit generated from
transaction fee.
2) The environment that allows ever-lasting game can play a role in
supporting the value of the characters and items possessed by the game
player.
3) Democratic forking on game rules can create voluntary new games
among participants, and can be used as a marketing tool when acquiring
new customers through game assets swap and airdrop.

Figure 14. Item trading in game using Game Chain platform

51

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

[Mobility chain]
·Current problems
1) Large volume of data is being generated from various sensors attached to
the vehicle. However, there is no platform to store, analyze, and trade
data. Therefore, the generated data is temporarily stored in each device
and discarded.
2) Data from automobile manufacturers, insurance companies, and repair
companies are stored separately which makes it difficult to check each
other’s data. This makes data vulnerable to forgery and the selling of
second-hand vehicles with accidents or malfunctions are done
unknowingly.
3) In-car payments for parking, gasoline, highway tolls, drive-thru stores are
increasing. But wireless payment has weak security and there are
inconveniences to find cash, credit card etc. in haste as payment
methods are not integrated.
·Solutions through blockchain
1) Data generated from various sensors are stored on the basis of crypto key
which is unique to each vehicle and can be shared and traded among
different parties (research institutes, automobile manufacturers,
consumers, repair companies, insurers, and public agencies).

2) With blockchain, an unmodifiable digital ledger can be made by
combining data from vehicle manufacturers, insurance companies, and
repair companies.
3) Blockchain based ‘vehicle wallet’ can be used as a safe and integrated
payment method.

52

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

·Benefits
1) Vehicle repair companies can purchase and analyze the data generated
from the vehicle through the Mobility chain and with the processed data,
they can conduct marketing activities such as vehicle inspection proposal
to the vehicle owner. Vehicle owners who receive coins as a reward for
providing data can pay the insurance with coins.
2) It can solve the information asymmetry between second-hand vehicle
buyers and dealers, which can improve trust in the second-hand vehicle
market. It is anticipated that the second-hand vehicle market will expand
in size by increasing the possibility of potential buyers in the new vehicle
market to shift into the second-hand vehicle market.
3) By using ‘vehicle wallet’ technology, it is possible to record the
transactions of automobile related fields such as automobile data and
customer support service. It also enables to change and store data.

Figure 15. Vehicle data trading through Mobility Chain platform

53

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

20

[IoT Chain]
·Current problems
1) Due to the different security levels of IoT nodes, hacking can threaten the
entire system and it is difficult to verify and recover data when the data
of the central system is altered or forged. Also, if there is a problem with
the central processing system, it is unable to use the connected IoT
devices.
2) Since IoT collects and processes data from various devices, it requires a
central server for processing big data which increases the cost of
construction and maintenance of the central system.
3) There is scalability problem when adding new IoT nodes as the nodes
have to be connected to the central server that has limited gathering and
processing capability.
·Solutions through blockchain
1) IoT data is distributed and stored in nodes so that DDoS attacks against
the central server can be mitigated. Since each node holds the data and
conducts verification, it is difficult for data to be altered or forged. Also,
malfunction of some devices will barely impact on the overall system.
2) System construction cost is saved by connecting each IoT device (peer-topeer) instead of building a separate central processing system.
3) New nodes can easily be added in the IoT system through internal system
node connection without any additional change or separate equipment.

20. Refer to ‘Trends in domestic and global blockchain based Internet of Things.’
2017.6 Financial Security Institute (Korea).

54

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-2. Service cases of Domain Chain

·Benefits
1) The policy of data access can be stored on the blockchain so that only the
data owners can access and control the collected data. Blockchain can
provide a secure data trading environment for the collected data from
IoT sensors. It also allows to trade data without any third party
interruption.
2) Public keys of IoT devices are stored on the blockchain which enables to
manage keys such as registration, renewal, and deletion.
3) Through blockchain, it is expected to overcome the current IoT limitation
and contribute to the vitalization of the IoT industry.

Figure 16. Example of using IoT devices in farming through IoT Chain platform

55

The Oracle of Blockchain

5. Service model
5-3. Case of utilizing service by
converging data between
Domain Chains

[Mobility Chain + Media Chain + Token]
·Data from Mobility chain: driving history, driving habits, maintenance,
history, GPS etc.
·Data from Media Chain: billboard location, advertisement media details etc.
·New additional services:
1) Provides a service that sends out advertisements to outdoor billboards
that is located on a point where many vehicles pass (the driving history
and GPS is gathered).
2) Provides a service that sends out related advertisements such as vehicle
products by utilizing data of vehicle driving history and vehicle status.
·Token: provides convenient and easy payment for advertisement expenses
and vehicle products

5-4. Case of solving current
problems by converging data
between Domain Chains

[Agri chain + Retail chain + Logistics chain]
· Problem: A service for franchise companies for effective store management,
reducing logistic costs, and stable supply of resources.
· Data form Agri Chain: status of crops and livestock, environment data
(temperature, humidity, growth status, soil nutrients, weather, feed status
etc.) collected through IoT sensors.
· Data from Retail Chain: data for franchise management (sales, order
history, stock status, delivery etc.)
·Data from Logistics Chain: vehicle stock status, driving route, driver details,
driving history etc.
With the convergence of data through OASISBloc, it is possible to provide
optimal services that allows securing reliability of safe management system
for products, cutting costs by selecting the optimal transportation route and
delivery reservations, and stability of product supply and demand.

56

The Oracle of Blockchain

OASISBloc token
6.1 Features
6.2 Token issuance
6.3 Token sales
6.4 Token allocation

6.5 Fund allocation

57

The Oracle of Blockchain

6. OASISBloc token
The total issuance amount of OSB, a token issued by OASISBloc Foundation, is 500 million. 400 million of the total
amounts are initially issued with the genesis block while the remaining 100 million are issued in four phases through
three times of half-life for 25 years. Please see Table 1 for the issuance details.
In Phase 1, 50 million of OSB are supplied to promote the OASISbloc ecosystem for five years, and the rewards are
allocated to BGs and Savings (OASISBloc Ecosystem Development Fund) in a ratio of 1 : 9, respectively. This
allocation is designed to promote the ecosystem by allocating the reward into the block reward account, which
supports a stable generation of the block, and the Savings account is for sustainability of the ecosystem.
In Phase 2, a stabilization stage, 25 million of OSB are supplied for five years. In Phase 3, 12.5 million of OSB are
supplied for five years while in Phase 4, another 12.5 million of OSB are supplied for 10 years.
The OASISBloc Savings, allocated in each phase with different amounts, is managed by OASISBloc Foundation and,
upon negotiation, may be spent on promoting the ecosystem.

Table1. Token Supply

Figure 17. Token supply Curve

6-1. Features

OASISBloc has the main features of Bitcoin and Ethereum and can be used in
both public and private blockchains. It uses ePoA (equitable Proof-ofAuthority) as a consensus algorithm.

58

The Oracle of Blockchain

6. OASISBloc token
The table below shows the main features of the OASISBloc blockchain.

6-1. Features

OASISBloc blockchain

Bitcoin blockchain

Ethereum blockchain

Main features

Financial transactions
Smart contract
Public/private blockchain

Financial transactions

Smart contract

Consensus algorithm

ePoA (equitable Proof of
Authority)

Proof of Work

Current: Proof of Work
Future: CASPER PoS

Block generator

39 nodes

Transaction speed

4,000 tx/sec

7 tx/sec

25 tx/sec

Block time

1 second

10 minutes

12 seconds

Block size

Dynamic

1 MB

Dynamic

Topology

Dynamic

Public blockchain

Public blockchain

×

×

Table 2. Main features of the OASISBloc blockchain

6-2. Token issuance

The total issuance amount of OSB tokens is 500,000,000 OSB tokens. 80% of
the total issuance amount (that is 400,000,000 OSB tokens) will be issued
along with the Genesis Block, and the remaining 20% (100,000,000 OSB
tokens) will be issued as block reward according to the reward rule.

6-3. Token sales

Foundation Oasis will issue OSB tokens and conduct token sales through a
presale and an IEO (Initial Exchange Offering) to organize and improve the
OASISBloc ecosystem.
Participants may purchase OSB tokens during the presale by making payment
in Bitcoin (BTC) or Ethereum (ETH). The relevant exchange rate can be
checked on the OASISBloc official website (www.oasisbloc.io).
Participants may purchase OSB tokens during the IEO through participating
exchanges. The details of the participating exchanges will be announced on
the official website. The policy may change based on the business operation
of OASISBloc.

59

The Oracle of Blockchain

6. OASISBloc token
6-4. Token allocation

OSB tokens that are issued as first block reward, will be used to organize,
develop, and improve the OASISBloc platform. Subject to adjustments by
Foundation Oasis in its sole and absolute discretion, such OSB tokens will be
allocated as follows: 46.6% to the participants of the token sales, 10% to
Domain Chain partners and for establishing the ecosystem, 2.1% for OIC
operation and management, 2% for marketing, 2% to advisors, 8% to the
founder and the project team of OASISBloc, 3.5% for platform testing and
development, 0.1% for infra operation, 0.1% for business development, and
the remaining 25.6% as company reserve for maintaining and enhancing the
value of the ecosystem. However, the percentage for ‘Reserve’ may change
depending on the result of the OASISBloc token sales.

* The percentage for ‘Reserve’ may change depending on the result of the token sales
Figure 18. Token allocation

60

The Oracle of Blockchain

6. OASISBloc token
6-5. Fund allocation

Funds that are raised through the token sales will be used to structure and
develop the OASISBloc platform. Subject to adjustment by Foundation Oasis
in its sole and absolute discretion, such funds will be allocated as follows:
4.5% to support partners, 2.5% to establish the ecosystem and develop
business, 6.5% to manage and operate OIC, 44.5% for platform development,
35% for marketing and promoting OASISBloc, 3.5% to operate system and
infrastructure, 0.9% to legal advisors, and the remaining 2.6% as company
reserve for security, legal, financial activities and activities for increasing
value.

Figure 19. Fund allocation

61

The Oracle of Blockchain

Ecosystem & roadmap
7.1 Establishing token ecosystem
7.2 OASISBloc roadmap

62

The Oracle of Blockchain

7. Ecosystem & roadmap
7-1. Establishing token ecosystem

OASISBloc platform is a data sharing and trading platform for Domain Chains
from various industries. It is difficult to activate the whole ecosystem simply
by emphasizing the role of market or platform. OASISBloc will focus on
creating the most fundamental data trading service model to be actively
driven. We will expand Domain Chains by discovering new projects from
start-ups and existing companies that would like to use blockchain. Through
this, OASISBloc will expand the ecosystem and provide the basis for
converging data.

New projects will be examined for their validity as a Domain Chain. Rather
than simply expanding Domain Chains by numbers, OASISBloc selects
businesses based on their competitiveness and future growth. This enables
healthiness in Domain Chains which will be the basis of the OASISBloc
ecosystem to develop and become healthy.
Validated projects and start-up companies will receive full consultation in
adopting blockchain to their businesses. By providing strategies for funding
and business expansion, Domain Chains will be able to acquire and manage
new users and contribute as a member of the OASISBloc ecosystem.

7-2. OASISBloc roadmap

The OASISBloc roadmap consists of 6 phases as below.
1) Phase 1. Basics of Domain Chain
• Build demo for data trading of file formats
• Register/search/purchase data (simple data trading function)
• Record data registration and purchase history on the on-chain
• Download/upload data on the off-chain
• Send data - send data that are in file format
• Research - encryption technology, data trading platform, ongoing related
projects
2) Phase 2. Improvement of Domain Chain
• Basic data standardization for trading
• Send data - send data type that are not in file format
• Data confidentiality - Data encryption and decryption when sending
• Consensus algorithm (ePoA)
• Data management
• Basic FEDSS
• Method of configuring parameter
3) Phase 3. Completion of Domain Chain
• Data security/protection (basic)
• Domain Chain oracle
• Various libraries and tools
• SDK provided
4) Phase 4. Basics of Oasis Chain
• Establish inter-domain protocol
• Data standardization for trading (inter-domain)
• Register and manage Domain Chain
• Register/search/purchase data from multiple Domain Chains (data
marketplace function)
• Support data purchase through value exchange

63

The Oracle of Blockchain

7. Ecosystem & roadmap
7-2. OASISBloc roadmap

5) Phase 5. Improvement of Oasis Chain
• Data security/protection (improvement)
• Various libraries and tools
• Provide SDK
• Build a de-fi service platform
6) Phase 6. Advanced developments
• Support data analysis
• Testing and stabilization
• Data exchange connection

2022
Data Exchange Platform

2021
Data Exchange

2020
Oasis Chain

2019
Launch Main-net

2Q
Test-net stabilization
PoC application release
Advanced Main-net(IBC,FEDSS)

1 – 4Q

1–4Q
Release domain chain hub
Launch data exchange Platform
Apply AI & machine learning
technology

Launch de-fi Platform
Implement NFT protocol
Launch Glance service
Launch Data Exchange
Release advanced application
(homomorphic encryption

1–4Q
Release communication
protocol & CDM
Release OASISBloc MVP and
Data marketplace
Establish data standardization for
Data trading
Implement inter-chain protocol
Launch test-net
Launch Main-net

Figure 20. Roadmap

64

The Oracle of Blockchain

Plans for ecosystem development
8.1 Marketing plan
8.2 Partnership plan

65

The Oracle of Blockchain

8. Plans for ecosystem development
8-1. Marketing plan

1) Objective & goal
Raise platform value through recruiting excellent Domain Chains
Improve brand awareness of OASISBloc
Improve accessibility to blockchain for SME that requires blockchain
2) Strategy
Enhance USP as a blockchain platform for data trading and management
Statement: OASISBloc is the 1st blockchainized data platform for trading
useful data and value between real businesses.
3) Marketing schedule
The token sales are divided into two stages (presale and IEO)
Optimized marketing plans according to stages (detailed schedule TBD)
On-going marketing for listing and valuation
4) Key activities
Promotional activities through participating in major blockchain events and
hosting regional meet-ups
Improve quality and global reputation by selecting blockchain, AI, and big
data related advisors
Implement IMC through roadshow/meet-up/media/SNS channels
Continuous PR of OASISBloc through global PR agencies to enhance value
5) Marketing Materials
Development of marketing materials for target group and IMC

8-2. Partnership plan

OASISBloc has a feature that creates synergy for data by effectively matching
the ecosystem and partners in the platform based on healthy alliances.
OASISBloc is planning to establish partnerships that will expand the
ecosystem by providing various incentives for all partners on the platform.
The OASISBloc ecosystem consists of three main components.
① Partner companies joining as Domain Chains
② Companies that provide infrastructure technology (AI, big data etc.)
required for the platform
③ Other blockchain core technology companies/teams for interchain
expansion
1) Domain Chain partner
The Domain Chain partnership is categorized into three types.
① Type A: Propose business expansion model for companies that have
good technology but are still in their growth stage.
② Type B: Provide solutions by understanding the needs of companies
that have already accumulated a large amount of data in order to
increase the number of Domain Chains and to activate high-quality
data trading.
③ Type C: Expand partnership with multinational companies to maximize
synergy through data transactions.

66

The Oracle of Blockchain

8. Plans for ecosystem development
8-2. Partnership plan

The procedure for Domain Chain registration and evaluation is as below.

Figure 21. Process for Domain Chain
registration and evaluation

When applying for Domain Chain registration, companies are required to
submit the basic information of the representative, company introduction,
project description etc. The procedure for evaluation is as follows.
① Evaluation committee (including OIC members) will be formed
② Analyze key competency of the applicant partner
- Technology evaluation
- Analysis of current technology, project, and competitiveness
- Analysis of probable contribution to platform improvement based on
project contents
- Analysis of economic effects and expansion of related market size
③ Project evaluation
- Evaluation of project validity
- Evaluation of budget
- Analysis of data applicability and connections with other Domain Chains
- Possibility of connecting with customers in demand for platform
④ Disclosure of evaluation result and voting
- Disclosure of key competence and project evaluation result
- Create smart contract and conduct a vote with BGs
The scope of service for Domain Chains will be decided according the
evaluation results. The benefits through the platform are as below.
① Education services for platform
② Support registration and distribution of DApp based on platform store
③ Promotional activities through project registration
④ Support on marketing tools for a certain period (platform, social network,
email, newsletter)
⑤ Provide target customer DB and support utilization
⑥ Introduce collaborative companies and partners
⑦ Provide communication channels with customers through OASISBloc
platform community
⑧ Provide contact points with customers through subscription system
⑨ Diversification of support range by grade
- Grade: Register > Standard > Advanced > Premier
- Grade criteria
·The initial grade will be determined by OIC evaluation
·Periodic evaluation according to the status of sales and services after
the project is launched

67

The Oracle of Blockchain

8. Plans for ecosystem development
8-2. Partnership plan

- Detailed supports for each grade
·Able to use education and marketing program, PR, and data storage
·Able to use management service program
·Supports on hosting seminars for platform customers and able to use
recommended services
·Able to access specialized services such as case studies, consulting etc.
based on data
Every Domain Chain partners have the following responsibilities for the
maturity and development of the OASISBloc platform ecosystem.
① Support, guidance, and education for healthy operation of the platform
② Discuss and implement the proposal for improvement and examine the
status of the project proposed by OIC
③ Support for discovery of new Domain Chain through partial return of
profit based on platform
2) Platform partner
Platform partners are part of the OASISBloc platform which is an internal
partner that works directly within the platform. They do not go through the
Domain Chain registration process. Platform partners effectively collects and
analyzes the data generated from each Domain Chain to create added value
and match the optimized data to each Domain Chain.

Platform partners are categorized as follows.
① Big data partner: creates added value by analyzing the data from each
Domain Chain
② AI partner: maps optimized data to each Domain Chain based on the value
added data through big data analysis
③ Auto contract partner: technically supports automatic exchange value of
data in Domain Chain through auto contract when data is traded in the
OASISBloc platform
④ IoT partner: technically supports for transmitting and processing IoT data
generated and accumulated from IoT devices in Domain Chains
⑤ Cloud partner: infrastructure for Oasis Chain and Domain Chain node
operation
3) Blockchain tech partner
Blockchain tech partner is a technology partner for the second development
stage to implement the interchain when the OASISBloc platform and its
partners have reached a stable growth stage. Blockchain tech partner is other
blockchain core technology companies/teams and they will collaborate with
OASISBloc’s blockchain core team to increase platform versatility.

68

The Oracle of Blockchain

Team
9.1 Our team
9.2 Our advisors

69

The Oracle of Blockchain

9. Team
9-1. Meet our team

William Chun

Jason Cho

Founder & CEO

CMO

Korea Fintech Platform
Forum / President

Marketing Team

Dylan Wonseok Choi
CTO

Hyung Man Yoon

Blockchain Lab

Felix Choi
Full Stack
Development Director
Platform Team

Marketing Director
Marketing Team

Young Seol Kim
Core Developer
Blockchain Lab

Eun Ji Joo
Full Stack
Development
Developer

Dae Hee Jang
Full Stack
Development
Developer

Platform Team

Platform Team

70

The Oracle of Blockchain

9. Team
9-1. Meet our team

Jeremie Seo
Blockchain Strategy
Director
Strategy Planning Team

Dave Shin
Communication
Manager
Strategy Planning Team

Ye Seul Kim
UI/UX Designer
Design Team

Ji Hyun Choi
Strategy Manager
Strategy Planning Team

Sung Yong Kim
Strategy Planner
Strategy Planning Team

Joseph Park
Overseas Business
Development Director
Business Development
Team

71

The Oracle of Blockchain

9. Team
9-2. Our advisors

Eddy Travia

Dr. Thomas C.

Chief Advisor

Bachtold

CEO at Coinsilium

Legal Advisor
Attorney-at-Law

Hyoung Joong Kim
Technical Advisor
Professor at Korea
University

72

The Oracle of Blockchain

9. Team
9-3. Partners

Strategic Partners

DoubleChain

COINSILIUM

CORNET

BMI

Domain Chain Partners

accubits

HUPAYX

NuCypher

Momentum
PROTOCOL

KOREA UNIVERSITY
MEDICAL CENTER

BlockchainCars

SoftNet

Mirai Securities

HANKOOK Tire

MobileBridge

KOREA UNIVERSITY

BIT LINK

DigiEntertainment

thinkforbl

addit

MEGAZONE CLOUD

FORBIZ KOREA

We Biztech

MADAMM

UZEN

SCHOOL OF CYBERSECURITY

73

The Oracle of Blockchain

9. Team
9-3. Partners

Domain Chain Partners

HARVEST Q

ERA KOREA

COINSWALLET

LION SECURITY

NOVATECH

HASHNET

KANAXIS

RUSSELL

WWI JAPAN

ASIA
BLOCKCHAIN
REVIEW

Enjoy-works

WISENUT

KOREA GOLD
STANDARD

KAY

Tuple Technologies

LVL 88

ABTL

MEDIBIG

CENTURY21

KeyoPass

SNC Lab

HUNIVERSE

MODU IT

IoTcube

74

The Oracle of Blockchain

Legal disclaimer

75

The Oracle of Blockchain

10. Legal disclaimer
10. Legal disclaimer

Please go through this “Legal disclaimer” carefully and in its entirety.
This document is intended for informational purposes only. This document
does not constitute a prospectus or offer document of any sort. This
document also does not constitute and is not intended to be, an offer to buy
or sell, or otherwise transfer, or an invitation, advertisement,
recommendation, advice, or inducement to invest in or make a commitment
to invest in, any capital markets products, securities, options, or any other
investment or financial instruments, in any jurisdiction. In particular, please
note that this document has not been filed with, reviewed or approved by
any regulatory authority.
Please note the following:
1. This document has been prepared and issued by Foundation Oasis Ltd.
(Company Registration No. 201835937N) (“Foundation Oasis“), a company
incorporated in Singapore, based on the views and plans of Foundation Oasis
as of the date set out on the cover page of this document.
2. The purpose of this document is to provide a general introduction to the
OASISBloc project (the “Project”) and the OASISBloc token (“OSB token”) to
potential token holders to assist them in determining whether further due
diligence may be required. The information in this document is only intended
to provide general and preliminary information to potential token holders
and should not be construed as the basis of any investment decision or
strategy.
3. The information in this document has been compiled from sources
believed to be reliable. There is no assurance as to the accuracy or
completeness of such information and no representation, warranty or
undertaking is or purported to be provided as to the accuracy or
completeness of such information. Where this document includes
information that has been obtained from third party sources, Foundation
Oasis has not independently verified the accuracy or completeness of such
information.
4. Before participating in the token sales or taking any action in connection
with the token sales, you should consider the information in this document
carefully, and consider whether you understand what is described in this
document. This document does not constitute any form of advice and should
not be relied upon in connection with any decision to participate in the token
sales or to otherwise purchase or acquire any right to obtain the OSB tokens.
If you are in doubt as to the action you should take, please consult your
financial, legal, tax, technical or other professional advisors.

76

The Oracle of Blockchain

10. Legal disclaimer
10. Legal disclaimer

5. Unless otherwise notified or agreed by Foundation Oasis in writing, the
sale and purchase of all OSB tokens during the token sales shall be governed
by a separate agreement known as the "OSB Token Sale Terms and
Conditions", which shall be separately provided to you or made available on
the OASISBloc official website at www.oasisbloc.io. No person is bound to
purchase any OSB tokens, and no purchase or payment would be accepted,
on the basis of this document. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between the "OSB Token Sale Terms and Conditions", this document and any
other document, the "OSB Token Sale Terms and Conditions" shall prevail to
the extent of the conflict or inconsistency unless otherwise specified in
writing by Foundation Oasis.
6. Financial authorities in the United States, Singapore, China, Switzerland,
Germany and other jurisdictions have tightened their policies regarding Initial
Coin Offerings (ICO).
OSB tokens are not intended for sale or use in any jurisdiction where the sale
or the use of digital tokens is prohibited. For more information on
jurisdictions that are excluded for the token sale, please refer to the "OSB
Token Sale Terms and Conditions". Please read the "OSB Token Sale Terms
and Conditions" carefully before considering purchasing of OSB tokens.
7. As set out in the "OSB Token Sale Terms and Conditions", OSB tokens carry
no rights other than a limited right to use and interact with the services
enabled by the OASISBloc platform, if and to the extent that the platform is
successfully developed and launched, and subject always to such terms and
conditions imposed by Foundation Oasis. OSB tokens do not confer and
should not be construed to provide any financial, legal or other rights in any
form apart from the rights expressly described in the "OSB Token Sale Terms
and Conditions".
8. Purchase of digital tokens is a high risk activity considering the unstable
regulatory frameworks and market volatility. Potential token holders should
carefully consider and evaluate all risks and uncertainties associated with a
purchase of OSB tokens. If any such risks or uncertainties materializes, it
could have a severe negative impact on the token sales, OSB tokens,
Foundation Oasis and OASISBloc. Please carefully review and assess the
terms applicable to OSB tokens and the token sale as well as the risks
involved before deciding whether or not to participate in the token sale. Only
prospective token holders with a sound understanding of digital assets and
those that have read and understood the "OSB Token Sale Terms and
Conditions" should purchase OSB tokens.

77

The Oracle of Blockchain

10. Legal disclaimer
10. Legal disclaimer

9. The information contained in this document is of a descriptive nature for
general information only, and is not legally binding. This document does not
constitute any offer by Foundation Oasis to sell any OSB tokens nor shall it or
any part of it nor the fact of its presentation form the basis of, or be relied
upon in connection with, any decision to participate in the token sales.
Nothing contained in this document is or may be relied upon as a promise,
representation or undertaking as to the future performance of OSB tokens,
the token sales or OASISBloc. Further, nothing contained in this document is
a representation, warranty or undertaking of the accuracy or fulfillment of
any particular matter at any given point in the future, and Foundation Oasis
disclaims any representation or warranty that it will execute any specific
action or guarantee specific results regarding any matters described in this
document.
10. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this
document, including, without limitation, statements regarding business
strategy and plans, estimates of returns or performance, and objectives for
future operations, are forward-looking statements. In addition, forwardlooking statements can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology such as "may", "will", "should", "could", "expect", "anticipate",
"estimate", "predict", "intend", "plan", "intend" or "believe", their respective
negatives and other comparable terminology. However, you should note that
these words or phrases are not the exclusive means of identifying forwardlooking statements.
11. Forward-looking statements address matters that involve risks and
uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could
cause Foundation Oasis’ actual results to differ materially from those
indicated in these statements. These factors include but are not limited to
the risk factors set out in the "OSB Token Sale Terms and Conditions". Any
forward-looking statements in this document reflect Foundation Oasis’
current views with respect to future events and are subject to these and
other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to Foundation Oasis'
operations, results of operations and growth strategy.
12. Forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date
appearing on the cover page of this document. Foundation Oasis undertakes
no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement,
whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to
Foundation Oasis or to individuals acting on behalf of Foundation Oasis are
expressly qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. Prospective token
holders should specifically consider the risk factors identified in the "OSB
Token Sale Terms and Conditions" which could cause actual results to differ
from expected results before making a decision to purchase OSB tokens.

78

The Oracle of Blockchain

10. Legal disclaimer
10. Legal disclaimer

13. This document may be amended, supplemented or modified by
Foundation Oasis (in its absolute discretion) at any time to provide more
detailed information or to reflect changes in circumstances. In such cases,
the latest version of the document shall prevail over all prior versions.
Foundation Oasis is under no obligation to provide any notifications or
notices of updates or changes to this document. The latest version of this
document can be accessed by visiting the OASISBloc official website. You
should therefore regularly check this website to determine whether there is
an updated version of this document.
14. Although Foundation Oasis makes an effort to ensure that the latest
version of this document is relevant and accurate, potential token holders
must not rely on the information provided in this document as an alternative
to professional advice from qualified third party advisors.
15. If you have any specific doubts or questions about legal, financial, tax or
other issues related to this document or the "OSB Token Sale Terms and
Conditions", you should consult an appropriately qualified professional
advisor.
16. The English version of this document is the official version of this
document and is the primary source of information about the Project.
17. Information contained in this document may, from time to time, be
translated into other languages, used in writing, or used verbally to
communicate with existing or potential token holders, partners, or any other
parties. In case there is a conflict or inconsistency between the translated
versions and the official English version, the English version shall prevail.
18. Neither Foundation Oasis nor its related corporations will be liable for any
damages or losses (whether actual, punitive, special, incidental,
consequential, exemplary or otherwise), including but without limitation to
loss of profits, income, revenue, use, production, anticipated savings,
business, contracts, commercial opportunities or goodwill, that may arise
directly or indirectly from the information contained in this document.

79

The Oracle of Blockchain

References

80

The Oracle of Blockchain

11. References
11. References

1. https://www.computing.co.uk/ctg/news/3018115/data-breaches-in-2017totally-eclipse-2016-already
2. https://newsroom.ibm.com/2018-07-11-IBM-Study-Hidden-Costs-of-DataBreaches-Increase-Expenses-for- Businesses#assets_all
3. What’s the Big Deal With Data? The Software Alliance BSA, 2015.
https://data.bsa.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/BSADataStudy_en.pdf

4. Getting Health data sharing off the ground. 2018.8.
https://www.ethz.ch/en/news-and-events/eth-news/news/2018/05/gettinghealth-data-sharing-off-the-ground.html
5. ETSI ISG CIM introduction. 2017.9, ETSI
6. Linked Open Data. 2015.4, Korean National Information Society Agency
7. Issue report_2017-004_Prospects and implications of industrial and social
use of blockchain. 2017.9, Software Policy and Research Institute
8. EOSIO Whitepaper 2.0
https://github.com/EOSIO/Documentation/blob/master/TechnicalWhitePape
r.md

9. StorJ, https://storj.io/storjv3.pdf
10. Analysis of research trend and blockchain. 2018.07, KERC, mentor Sung
Gyo Jung
11. [4th Industrial Revolution] Korea-China comparison of big data
transactions, April 2018, Korea International Trade Association, Institute for
International Trade

81

82

