Stars and fans

Whitepaper - v3.2

Stars rewarding your passion

A Blockchain-powered social platform
that rewards collaboration and engagement

Authors
Carlos Grenoir, Kevin Mitnick, Carles Puyol,
Andrés Iniesta, Iván de la Peña

Whitepaper - v3.2 - November 2020

Abstract
Olyseum is an ecosystem designed by stars to create a closer and more meaningful
relationship with their fans. In Olyseum, stars will monetize their social influence
and reward their fan’s loyalty. Olyseum will allow stars to monetize audiences,
and fans to monetize engagement; everything through a blockchain-based reward
system and an ERC-20 utility token.
For fans, Olyseum is proposing a collaborative platform that allows them to earn
rewards for their activity around stars in Olyseum and on other social networks.
These rewards can then be redeemed through an exclusive experience exchange
created by Olyseum and the stars, as a means to be closer to them.
For stars, Olyseum helps them create a global community through which they can be
closer to their fans and reward their support. Stars will also earn a direct percentage
of the overall advertising income of the network, allowing them to monetize their
fans and activity. On the other side, they are entitled to receive additional value
by making available exclusive experiences for their fans and sharing them in their
current social networks, in exchange for tokens and other benefits.
Launched by computer engineer and neuroscientist Carlos Grenoir and super hacker
Kevin Mitnick, in partnership with former FC Barcelona players Carles Puyol, Andrés
Iniesta and Iván de la Peña, and othe top people in the industry, Olyseum aims to
bring fans and their stars closer with blockchain-based token as the backbone of a
new, innovative interaction model between fans, stars and brands.

Table of contents
Part I:

5

1. Introduction

5

1.1. Overview
1.2. Motivation
1.2.1. How it all Started
1.3. The Opportunity: Trends of a Broken Industry
1.3.1. A Huge, Broken Traditional Sports Media Industry
1.3.2. Unsocial Social Networks
1.3.3. The Rise of Social Commerce and Influencer Marketing
2. Solution Overview
2.1. The Proposed Platform
2.1.1. Actors of the Platform and their Roles
2.1.2. Flow of the Rewards Distribution
2.2. Why Blockchain Technology
2.3. Main Token Uses
2.4. Some Growth Strategies

5
5
6
7
7
8
9
10
10
10
11
12
13
14

Part II:

16

3. Current State and Short Term Plans

16

3.1. Our Live Platform
3.2. Current Product

16
16

4. Executive Team Behind Olyseum

18

4.1. Founders
4.2. Investors and senior advisors

18
19

Part III:

21

5. Token details

21

6. Legal Considerations

22

Part I
1. Introduction
1.1. Overview

Keywords: description, product, technology,
tokens, staking
This document describes a proposed upgrade
of Olyseum’s initial product that leverages
blockchain technology to help fulfill the founder’s
long term vision of recognizing users for their
loyalty and engagement, and providing them
with value that can be used towards access to
exclusivity from their beloved stars, solving the
common problem for very popular people of
providing value to a large number of users.
At the same time, Olyseum involves the stars
and the content generators in the finantial
ecosystem around social value from a global
perspective at a platform-level.
The OLY token shall be earned by fans by actively
interacting with content and other social activity,
and shall be then utilized to access exclusive
merchandise offered in a newly launched
exchange of curated experiences, products and
services, built in the star communities. Given the
exclusivity and uniqueness of the marketplace
offers, acquiring them will require users to use
tokens to access them.
Once launched, the new Olyseum platform shall
combine the latest technologies with an ERC20
token, with the purpose of creating a new way of
engagement between stars and their followers.

1.2. Motivation

Keywords: genesis, stars for fans
Olyseum was born from the initiative of a group
of globally-recognized sport stars who, frustrated
with the available technology to interact with
their fan base, decided to take on the challenge
of launching a platform created by stars, for fans.
Throughout their careers, Olyseum co-founders
Carles Puyol, Andrés Iniesta and Iván de la Peña,
as well as many other sport stars, built a massive
and loyal fan base. And while the last decade
brought new technologies like social networks,
which allowed them to enhance their global
reach, these networks did not fulfill their desire
to establish closer ties with each fan. In a way,
they were able to increase reach, but lacked
engagement. More importantly, there was a
common feeling that social networks were unfair
to the fan base (and to them), keeping most of the
value generated by them in the hands of a few
market participants: brands, clubs, advertisers
and the networks themselves.
In 2016, Puyol, Iniesta and de la Peña met Carlos
Grenoir and Kevin Mitnick (the world-renowned
security expert), who were exploring ways to
solve the drop of engagement in social networks
using reward systems, Artificial Intelligence and
other technologies, including Blockchain.
That meeting turned out to be the genesis of the
first Olyseum version, soft-launched by some
of the biggest names in the sports industry in
partnership with entrepreneurs with a very
strong background in security and IT. In its first
iteration, the Olyseum platform consisted of a
mobile app that helped connect fans with their
sporting stars, providing exclusive content and
offering several engaging features, much like a
specialized social network for fans.
In February 2017, Andrés Iniesta personally used
5

this beta version of Olyseum. He spent time
getting to know the members in the Comunidad
Iniesta and personally published 397 posts inside
Olyseum. During that period, he received 16,291
likes from community members, 713 shares within
the Olyseum platform, and created conversations
that generated over 2,300 comments. The first
feedback test of Olyseum and Comunidad Iniesta
on Facebook received almost 1 million likes in
over eleven publications, with over half a million
likes and more that 6,600 shares coming from a
single Olyseum video. During this period, Iniesta
also launched contests and gave away the soccer
boots he used during his 400th match for F.C.
Barcelona. All of this on a private first beta version.
Olyseum has experimented with this platform,
testing, reaching out to the fan base and other
sport stars and looking at upcoming new
technologies. As a result of this experimental
phase, the Olyseum team has identified clear
pain points on what we consider a thriving but
broken industry, and is with this in mind that is
now presenting the addition of blockchain as the
next evolution of the product, focused on making
fans feel closer to their stars through a unique,
aspirational social commerce experience.

1.2.1. How it all Started
Inspiration from Carles Puyol

to perpetuate the behaviors of success, and for
this you have to cultivate a method and train hard
for it. One of the things you learn is that success,
in a team sport, requires you to study the game,
the tactics, and to motivate the players on your
side. This is the type of discipline I want to share
with my fans, especially the youngest ones who
are starting their sporting life. For a long time now
I have wanted to create a platform where I can
share my knowledge through lessons, challenge my
followers through contests, plan activities, and help
the people that have supported me all these years...
a place where we can concentrate on what we truly
passionate about: sport”.

Inspiration from Andrés Iniesta

“I would love to have a place where the users
who really feel my football, those closest to me,
those I can call my friends, can communicate with
me and share my experiences, as friends. I have
always wanted to reward my fans, for their support
all of these years, with some cool stuff from my
professional life, also a part of my economic success.
But on other social networks it’s impossible, there’s
no way to do it. That’s why I created my community
on Olyseum: Comunidad Iniesta”.

All my career I have strived to reach what I
envision for my team and to be the best example
for others, something indispensable for a captain.
The goal most professional players aim for is to win.
First, placing values before results; second, trying
6

The number of viewers among leading broadcasters

0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

64
58
49
Younger

39
28
33
21
15
10
7
4
5
6
7
7
5
5
6
7
11

Older

As many industries, the sports industry is
transitioning into the digital space, and facing
many challenges during this process. One of the
biggest challenges is the shift in consumer behavior
especially among the younger generation. This
is determined by how media is mostly being
consumed nowadays, with consumers preferring
mobile devices and on-demand services over
broadcasted TV.

Online social media is the main source of news
for different age segments, especially for those
within the 18 to 44 years old segment, leaping
fast from TV to social media and other sources.

Online
(inc. social media)

The global sport market revenue in 2017 was
around 90.9 billion U.S. dollars, 15 billion more
than in 2013 and almost double 2005 revenue.
According to a sport survey published by PwC in
September 2017, the expected average annual
growth rate by segments over the next 3-5 years
is led by Broadcasting (8%), Sponsorship (7.1%),
Participation fees (6.6%), Ticketing (6.1%) and
Licensing and Merchandising (5.9%). Sports in
the digital world touches different audiences and
formats, such as the remarkable digital games
industry, in which, for example, the game FIFA
18 has reached outstanding new sales records of
over 300,000 copies sold in one week, bringing
the total retail sales to over ten million USD.

Social Media

Keywords: state of the art, on demand, mobile,
social networks

Radio

1.3.1. A Huge, Broken Traditional Sport
Media Industry

Printed
newspapers

In the last 2 years we learned a lot about the
relationship between fans and their sport stars.
We also spent a lot of time evaluating industry
trends and testing hypothesis of what could be
improved in the market. The following 3 key
trends were key to inspire our next product
evolution:

such as ESPN (US) continues to drop year on year.
ESPN has seen its subscriber base reduced by
12% in the last six years, while Sky (UK) faced a
decline in average viewing of live Premier League
matches of 14% over the past season. Ratings
for primetime coverage of Rio 2016 compared
to London 2012 also declined for NBC (US) by
17%, with a steep decline of 25% among the allimportant adults aged 18-49 segment. According
to the Advertising Association and WARC, UK ad
spending on mobile was higher than TV spend for
the first time. Total ad market growth was recorded
at £5.4 billion demonstrating a 3.5% year-on-year
growth, the 17th consecutive quarter of market
expansion. Spending on TV saw a slight decline,
but 30.7% increase to £1.3 billion spent is an
impressive gain for mobile.

24
29
37

TV

1.3. The Opportunity: Trends of a
Broken Industry

45
51

18 - 24

25-34

35-44

45-54

55+

7

While all this data shows a shift in the traditional
behavior of sport fans towards online platforms,
stars who have built online audiences of
phenomenal sizes are still lacking the right tools
to help them maximize their brand value and
let the fans interact with them in a meaningful
way. Existing social media companies do not
see the stars, who are the true owners of these
communities, as their partners, and those who
do manage to extract value from their audiences
(the so called “influencers”) do so despite the
networks they work with, rather than because
of them.

1.3.2. Unsocial Social Networks
Keywords: growth, unsharing, unspecialized
Industry-specific social networks tend to be very
active and engaging. Reddit, for example, has
achieved a high level of meaningful conversations
within the Information Technology space and has
developed a huge community of contributors.
Other more generic networks, like Twitter or
Facebook, had to find ways to break down their
huge communities around shared interests as a way
to keep them engaged (like groups in Facebook).
Yet, they are so generic that they are not appealing
to stars that carry large audiences. Conversations
in these networks tend to be short-lived and they
usually get lost in the depth of never ending feeds
that receive very little attention. More importantly,
these channels are only able to share some small
talk or chat, but they lack tools for efficiently
building and nurturing a solid fan base.
The fans, in turn, feel disengaged. The passion
they show for their stars in the sports field does
not translate to the online world and is turned
into apathy, becoming just “readers” or passive
participants of whatever their “feeds” show them.
The resulting communication system is isolated in
a misplaced loop. It becomes difficult for the stars

to truly understand what their fans want or what
moves them, leading to the voice of their followers
and supporters to get lost due to unidirectional
and dysfunctional communication channels.
Impersonal and non-specialized social networks
see their level of community engagement fall,
and young users feel increasingly unmotivated to
actively participate in these communities, hopping
from one social network to another as they get
disengaged.
Another problem identified by our founders
is the way stars (and clubs) correspond and
share their success with the fans who support
and encourage them throughout their careers.
Facebook, Twitter, and other social platforms
benefit tremendously from the engagement,
content creation and participation of their users,
yet this benefit is rarely shared in any meaningful
way with their rightful owners. At Olyseum, in
contrast, we are proposing to reward fans and
sport stars for their activity and engagement
around the content we create or publish. This is
even more relevant because fans are not looking
for monetary value. In fact, what they crave
the most can’t be measured with a monetary
reward: How much is an experience with your
star worth? What level of effort would a fan put
in, in order to be able to get a signed shirt, a
video, or to share a dinner with a star? What
fans crave for is feeling closer to their stars.
We believe the existing system is not fair and
does not properly reflect the true potential of
the fan-star relationship. This is why we created
Olyseum: we want to apply the latest available
technology to help fans and stars improve
their relationship on and offline and do so in a
way that it is mutually beneficial. After almost
two years of experimenting with our app and
our founders’ communities, we concluded
that adding blockchain and smart contracts
technologies can help fix this broken system.
8

1.3.3. The Rise of Social Commerce and
Influencer Marketing
It is no secret that people (and fans!) use social
media networks to, among other things, discover
things to buy. Social networks like Instagram,
Pinterest and the like have become sources
of inspiration that drive sales. According to a
GlobalWebIndex survey, the percent of Internet
users who use social media to research or find
products to buy increased by 20% between
2015 and 2017, and time spent on these social
channels is now over 2 hours per day:

2015

2016

2017

1:49

2:06

2:15

23%

25%

28%

a way of knowing them better. A fan of Carles
Puyol knows that football is at the center of his
life, but he may not know that he likes to cook, or
that he enjoys skiing with the family or reading
a specific book. Learning about his tastes and
activities, or just receiving recommendations of
activities that he likes, can be a unique way of
feeling closer to the star.
At the same time, statistics show that having a
massive follower base does not automatically
translate in engagement. In fact, some influencer
marketers assure that the larger the follower
base, the less engaged they tend to be. As a
result, marketers are less inclined to spend
marketing budget on big stars and instead go
with the smaller influencers to achieve a better
ROI. While this might be good for the up-andcoming influencers, it is not so good for the
sport stars, who have seen it harder and harder
to monetize the enormous number of followers
they have.

Just in Instagram, over 1.5 million posts were
tagged with #ad, and influencer marketing grew
by an estimated 200%. Fitness & wellness were
trending and made it to the top 10 industries.
Another research firm, Technavio, estimates that
annual social commerce revenues will exceed
$165 billion by 20211 .
Sport fans are particularly prone to this type of
social influence. The reason is that knowing their
stars tastes in products, services and activities is

1 https://www.adweek.com/digital/harald-merckel-guest-post5-best-tools-for-social-commerce-in-2018/

9

2. Solution Overview
2.1. The Proposed Platform
Vision:
To be the main hub between celebrities and their fans.
Mission:
Bringing celebrities closer to their communities,
allowing them to monetize audiences and activity.
Value Proposition:
A unique social buying experience with an embedded
blockchain-based rewards and loyalty program
thought for sport fans.
At its core, the proposed Olyseum platform is a
tool that allows fans and stars to connect through
content visualization plus social-commerce with
three major components:
A. Content feed, where fans can access content
from their preferred stars, interact with these
contents and obtain points;
B. Loyalty/reward program, which consists of a set
of rule-based off-chain point allocations, combined
with a set of on-chain smart contracts that allocate
and distribute OLY tokens and;
C. Products and experiences marketplace, which is
the place where tokens can be used or staked in
exchange of exclusive access to unique and limited
products and experiences, such as collectibles,
VIP access tickets and other experiences involving
stars (meet & greets, exclusive digital content,
masterclasses, etc.).

value created by their social interactions within
and outside the platform, allowing for powerful
marketing and engagement features to be
programed and tracked transparently.

2.1.1. Actors of the Platform and their Roles
At launch, the proposed Olyseum platform will
rely on a simple, yet powerful loyalty and reward.
system that will bring fans and sports stars closer
to achieving their specific needs and desires:
Wants

Value they can give

Fans

Feel closer to their Social
engagement.
stars. Learn about For the proper items,
them, know their willingness to pay.
tastes,
and
be
rewarded by their
stars.

Stars

Monetize
their
social channels in
a meaningful way
without
alienating
their followers.

Create unique
experiences for their
fans.

Select curated
products and
Find scalable ways services.
to engage more
with their fan base.
Reward their real
fans.

Advertisers A way to achieve Willingness to
their marketing goals
with
transparency
and accountability of
how their marketing
budgets are spent.

promote certain
behaviours in the
application through
the use of Olyseum as
an engagement-based
ad network.

The goal is to build a platform that makes it very
easy and fun for fans to identify and interact
with as much content as possible available online
related to their sporting stars. At the same time,
their engagement will be rewarded by a blockchainbased reward system that uses an ERC20 token
to allow participants to reap part of the economic
10

2.1.2. Flow of the Rewards Distribution
Keywords: income from ads, Olyseum fee, token conversions, budgets, tokens
distribution
The following chart represents the expected flow of the OLY tokens through the
system once the platform is completed:

General flow example:
A. Rewards are allocated through a transparent “Point” system (using the public
blockchain as a way to ensure this transparency) to fans. These points can later on
be converted to ERC-20 tokens within the system (the OLY tokens). The source of
the OLY tokens will depend on how the fans earned their points (a pool of tokens
that is funded by advertisers/promoters that want to reward certain behaviours
within the platform, and a “native” token pool from the platform itself, funded by
the fees the platform collects from the marketplace sales).
B. Fans can use their OLY tokens in the Marketplace in exchange of products
and experiences created, curated and promoted by stars and brands. These tokens
can then be distributed (as revenue share) between the promoters (advertisers),
endorsers/owners (stars) and the platform.
C. A potential possibility is to allow fans to stake tokens instead of spending them.
In that case, the staked tokens would be locked in a contract for a certain period
of time and then released for the original owners to recover them. In return, fans
would be granted special discounts (in fiat or tokens), and/or access to exclusive
deals within the marketplace. This is a feature that we could decide to deliver soon.
11

2.2. Why Blockchain Technology?

Keywords: smart contracts, new advertising
models, transparency
The OLY token will be the centerpiece of a reward
system for fans, as well as a flexible mechanism
to manage unique and innovative marketing and
engagement engines.
At launch, Olyseum will publish and maintain
a set of smart contracts that will manage the
loyalty and reward system within the platform.
These smart contracts, in combination with
some additional off-chain technology, shall
allow certain platform participants (fans, stars,
brands and the platform operators) to set up and
see transparent rules for how to receive and use
OLY tokens within the platform.
One of the key benefits of using blockchain
technology for the reward system is that it can
bring a lot of transparency to it. This should be
very relevant when, in the future, brands and
communities decide to reward fans for specific
actions within the platform. For example, a
brand might want to reward those fans that
engage with a specific content within the
platform. Yet, if this is publicly disclosed, there is
a risk of cheating (fans would start liking content
not because they actually like it but because
they know that a particular brand will reward
them disproportionately to do so). This would
be detrimental, as advertisers would feel they
are not getting real attention or engagement,
but rather just paid clicks. It is well known that
the advertising industry is prone to this kind of
manipulation, especially in performance-based
models like Pay-Per-Click (PPC) or Pay-perAction (PPA) schemes.
Olyseum proposes to use the public blockchain
to solve this problem, while at the same time
ensuring that the rules of reward allocations are

transparent and immutable. The way this works
is the following:
First, the advertiser might enter the campaign
parameters in a private form within the Olyseum
platform (total budget, amount of tokens paid for
each action within the platform, duration, etc).
Once completed, the Olyseum system encrypts
these parameters and hash it into the Ethereum
blockchain, creating an immutable prove of the
existence of these parameters, but without
revealing the parameters themselves yet.
The Advertiser (or the platform, if the adveritser
paid in FIAT) would then fund the smart contract
running the campaign with the equivalent OLY
tokens to their planned budget, causing the
campaign to start.
Olyseum, as operator of the platform, would then
allocate points to each market participant that is
entitled to them based on the parameters set up
in the first step.
These points would eventually be exchanged for
OLY by their rightful owners. To do so, the system
would recognize that these tokens were earned
from the advertising campaign.
The smart contract distributes the rewards
following the original campaign parameters.
Finally, the hash is revealed and the specific
information of the parameters would be open for
anyone that wants to audit the right distribution
of the rewards.
In this way, everyone can verify that they have
actually been rewarded according to the rules
of the campaign. Yet, by revealing this after the
campaign is over, we make sure that no users
are inclined to game the system and modify
behavior just to earn tokens.
This is, just one application of blockchain
technology, and as the Olyseum ecosystem
grows, we may test / propose new use cases.
12

2.3. Main Token Uses

Keywords: ERC20, utilities, brands, stars, fans
Behind all the flows described so far, the
Olyseum platform will have a native token called
OLY that will aim to recreate the dynamics of
a “circular economy”. In a circular economy,
the resources within it are exchanged back and
forth among participants, with minimum “waste”
outside the system. As the economy adds more
participants to it, and as participants increase
their interactions / exchanges, there’s a natural
increase of demand for the means of exchange,
which in this case is the OLY token.
Additionally, we are maybe adding the possibility
of staking tokens instead of using them. We
believe this is important, as we expect long-term
users of the platform to value the OLY token over
time, especially as the network of stars expand

Fans

and there are more opportunities to access
deals that are more appealing to their fans. The
staking smart contract would receive tokens,
take them out of circulation for a while, and
then return them back to the original owners. In
a way, it is similar to a time-deposit. In exchange,
the staking action shall grant the owner with a
specific benefit (a temporary discount, increased
market visibility, etc.), and it may serve as a way
to ensure delivery and quality of service in the
future (as stakes can potentially be reduced
by the system when a market participant
misbehaves).
The goal is to have in place a system that allows
the OLY token to be used at least as a means of
value exchange and storage across this circular
economy.
The following chart summarizes some of the
ways each market participant may acquire,
spend or stake tokens:

Acquisition

Expenditure

Get rewarded with tokens when they
engage with the content within their feeds
and the communities they belong to, and
performing different activities within the
platform.

Use as access rights and means of payment
for purchases made in the marketplace.

Acquire tokens from other market
participants, given that OLYs are ERC20
and compatible with many different wallets.

Holding3

For those that do not want to fully spend
their OLYs, the system will provide a series
of token discounts in exchange of locking
Additional potential uses include bidding a certain amount of tokens into a staking
for exclusive auctioned products or smart contract that will hold the tokens
for a certain period and then release them
experiences with their sport stars.
back to the original owner.
In addition, as users accumulate points
in the system, they may gain access
to exclusive rewards (similar to airlines
frequent flyer programs tiers).

Stars
(endorsers)

Receive tokens as partial compensation for Reward community members (fans) While not contemplated at launch, once
the sale of products/experiences offered or for active participation within their the platform opens up to lesser-known
endorsed in the marketplace.
communities.
influencers, staking may be a way for them
to gain visibility into the platform.
Receive tokens for promoting the platform Stars may also use their tokens to endow
and bringing new users and stars on-board. charity causes they want to support.

Advertisers
(Promoters)

May acquire tokens paid in FIAT to
activate a specific campaign. Tokens shall
be acquired from the platform and/or
third party exchanges when/if available.

Fund specific ad campaigns using the
tokens to reward certain engagement
behaviors. This can be done directly by
them or transparently through Olyseum.

Platform

Olyseum will endow the platform with a
large number of tokens to help kickstart its
use.

Fund a “native” reward system, which
will promote engagement across the
platform, or within specific communities
that require promotion.

In addition, the platform may collect a
small transaction fee each time there is a
transaction in the marketplace.

3 Holding or Staking means locking the tokens for a certain period, in which the tokens cannot be accessed by the user. Once that
set time has passed, tokens are freed up and can be re-used to get another discount or consumed.

13

2.4. Some Growth Strategies
At Olyseum, we believe we have a great
working beta version for the platform, and a
clear vision of what needs to be built to deliver
a functioning blockchain-based social network
focused on bringing stars and fans closer to
each other. Our immediate goal is to increase
the number of stars and fans in our platform,
as we work behind the scenes to release the
new version and incorporate all the benefits
provided by blockchain technology and smart
contracts described in the previous section of
this document. While we do not plan to release
or disclose a specific roadmap or marketing plan,
we do have a few growth strategies that we can
share, like fostering a healthy competition across
star communities through contests and other
gamification techniques. The idea behind these
contests will be to establish engaging and fun
ways to distribute a portion of the OLY tokens
that Olyseum holds to the different stars and
their followers, incentivizing some competition
and gamification.
The reward system is the blood of the Olyseum
platform. In essence, we are combining on and
off-chain technology to create a two-tiered
reward and loyalty system that will allow users
(fans) to participate in a model that has clear and
verifiable rules for earning, storing and spending
the native tokens.
We believe that a good loyalty/rewards program
should have the following characteristics:
1. Clear, transparent rules for earning points /
rewards.
2. An easy way to redeem points / rewards.

no longer wants to use their points.
4. Long-term value for the most loyal participants
With this in mind, we’ve set up a series of design
principles that, we believe, will position Olyseum
in a great place:
We will leverage established communities of
fans through partnerships with stars that want
to offer rewards to their followers (and monetize
them). At Olyseum, our plan is to leverage already
established communities of fans and their sport
stars in all their social networks. We believe that
fans will appreciate when their sport stars invite
them to participate in a program that rewards
them for their loyalty with the possibility to earn
tokens that are redeemable for exclusive content,
experiences and more.
From the fan’s point of view, as long as their
star has a social presence or makes the news,
Olyseum will offer her the possibility to add the
star to their feed, even if the star is not yet part of
the Olyseum platform.
Once the star joins the platform, a new marketplace
will be created, where the fans of that star will
be able to access the curated products and
experiences tailored for that star’s fans.
For the sport stars, joining our platform shall be
risk free and shall be a very small commitment
(just agreeing to create some exclusive products
and experiences for their followers). Over time,
though, having a direct channel with their fan
base and a way to reward their interaction shall
make Olyseum a very engaging channel for those
stars that want to keep a closer tie with their fan
base. Each star will monetize fan-acquisition and
fan-engagement, making it a very motivational
fact for stars to migrate ther fanbase.

3. Transferability to other participants when user
14

We develop exclusive rewards, initially focused
on the sports industry. In order to generate
genuine value for the fans and for the OLY
token, the products offered in our marketplace
need to be exclusive and fan-oriented. Olyseum
is uniquely positioned to achieve this, given the
direct access we have to some of the world’s
leading sport stars and their network. Further,
initially specializing in sport fans will give us an
edge over other experience-focused companies.
We leverage blockchain technology, but we don’t
abuse it. In our view, many blockchain projects
commit the error of focusing too much in the
technology and less on the user experience. For
us, having a product that is beautiful and delivers
on the promise to the users is key to succeeding.
All the powerful aspects of blockchain will
be worthless if we fail to deliver an amazing
experience to our fans and stars.
We listen to our users and iterate. Although we
have a clear vision of what needs to be built at
launch, we are also aware that decentralized
technologies such as this require constant
reviewing and adapting to the market.

In sum, the rise of the Ethereum blockchain
and its smart contracts capabilities has opened
up numerous new ways to share not only
information but also value in a meaningful way.
We believe that adding blockchain technology
to a traditional rewards program provide a
fast, cost efficient, immutable, transparent and
decentralized way of achieving this. And while
there are still some technological challenges
around scalability, the combination of traditional
development with smart contracts running on a
public network may bring trustless and efficient
reward systems, allowing secure exchange of
information and value between parties that may
not necessarily know or trust each other.
We have spent a long time identifying different
alternatives that would allow us to best leverage
the current state of the blockchain technology
in order to tackle some of the opportunities
and trends we described above. We are now
ready with this launch to execute our vision of
bringing fans and their stars together in a unique,
engaging way, where everybody gets rewarded
for adding value to the community. The future
of fandoms has arrived. And it’s called Olyseum.
We hope you join.

15

Part II
3. Current State and Short Term Plans
3.1. Our Live Platform

3.2. Current Product

We have developed a mobile application
implemented in React Native for iOS and Android.
It is complemented with a backend programmed
in Python and its Django Web Framework. They
are behind nginx web server containers along
with other microservices.

Intro

Keywords: web platform, mobile apps, data

Data is stored in PostgreSQL and Redis. In fact,
we use Redis extensively mainly to manage hot
data, rankings and as a queue system.
The ecosystem resides in a Kubernetes cluster,
ensuring availability and scalability for a rapid
growth, deployed on Amazon AWS. To accelerate
all the media streaming, we also use a third party
multi-CDNs to be close to our users.
Our previous release quickly achieved 250k+
downloads in the app stores with no marketing
campaigns, rather than two posts on social
networks of Andrés Iniesta and Carles Puyol. It
has been used in the first stage to identify the
target audience, study the behavior of fans, and
test interest and multiple interactions between
stars and fans.

Challenges and Replicas feed

In this current phase, we have developed feeds
of challenges and replicas, a gamification system
through an in-house ranking model, stars
dedicated communities, a rewards system, an
advertising campaigns engine, an experiences
exchange and an ERC20 wallet system. Our focus
is to foster a rich, fair and transparent ecosystem,
for what we built a set of tools and smart contracts
on Ethereum’s blockchain technology.
16

Experiences Marketplace

Fan profile and Star community

17

4. Executive Team Behind Olyseum
4.1. Founders
Carlos Grenoir
President and Chief
Executive Officer
Ph.D. applicant in Computer Science and
Telecommunications, Masters in Information
Security and in Neuroscience. Focused on
intelligent and collaborative systems, has a long
career in computer security, coding in his youth
one of the most famous computer viruses for
GNU / Linux environments. Entrepreneur,
founder of Quantum Fields Technologies and
co-founder of Olyseum.
Andrés Iniesta
Co-founder and First
Idol-Community
Former captain of F.C.Barcelona, currently leading
Vissel Kobe as part of a plan to improve sports
in Japan, he won some of the biggest titles on
football, including a World Cup, the best player of
the UEFA European Championship, best player of
the match on two World Cups and was nominated
many times to a Golden Ball.

Iván de la Peña
Co-founder and Advisor

F. C. Barcelona and R. C. D. Espanyol former
player, one of the most technical players in the
world, he won a UEFA Super Cup, a National
LaLiga league, three spanish King’s Cup, a Spanish
Super Cup and an Italian Super Cup.

Carles Puyol
Co-founder and Vice President

Former captain of F.C.Barcelona, a natural leader
and legend. Carles has won every major trophy in
football, including World Cup in 2010, six LaLiga
titles, three UEFA Champions League titles, and
two FIFA Club World Cup titles. He is a public
speaker, entrepreneur, and Olyseum Team captain
and recruiter.

Kevin Mitnick
Co-founder and Security
Advisor
The most famous hacker in the world, security
guru and consultant, public speaker and author
of bestsellers. Does security consulting for
Fortune 500 companies and the FBI, performs
penetration testing services for the world’s
largest companies and teaches Social Engineering
classes to dozens of companies and government
agencies. Founder of Mitnicksecurity.

Albert Castellana
Investor, Board member and
Managing partner. Leading
Blockchain department in Olyseum
Chief Product Officer of Radix DLT and one of
the NEM Foundation’s founding team members,
he joined Olyseum as an equity partner in
2019. At Radix, he oversees strategic product
decisions, bridging the gap between business
and technology. Albert will help Olyseum with
strategy, product and economic models, with a
strong focus on the token.
18

Jan Aramburu
Co-founder and
Board member
Graduated in Information Technology and
Business Management, specializing in Marketing
and Business applied to distribution and eBusiness.
After his stint as marketing and business director
of WWRS, Licensee of National Geographic,
Taurus Group and Kappa Spain Sports, he is in
charge of the Business and Marketing Department
of Olyseum.

Ramon Sostres
Co-founder

Lawyer, former tax inspector of the Spanish
Public Treasury, manager and lawyer of high level
footballers and specialist in sports management.
Ramón is a recognized businessman and part of
the shareholder, in charge of supervising the legal
area, taxation and business strategy.

4.2. Investors and senior advisors
Crèdit Andorrà Bank
Seed investor and Board member

Crèdit Andorrà is the biggest bank in Andorra and led the seed round of Olyseum, becoming an
equity investor in 2017, after studying the business model and blockchain innovations related with
advertisement and rewards. The bank will help the company to grow and will provide an important
influx to its international operations. Martí Alfonso Simón (financial executive, Director of Business
Banking at Crèdit Andorrà) is on the Board of Olyseum. Top-tier executive history on banking and
financial services. Former Vice President of Credit Suisse Bank, currently is the Director of Business
at Crèdit Andorrà Bank, where he has led as head of Private and Commercial Banking Business
during seven years. Currently, Olyseum’s board member.

19

Javier de Rocafort
Investor, Senior advisor and Board member
Leading Corporate strategy in Olyseum
Founder and managing partner of Deer Valley Capital
					
Javier has 20-year experience in the Investment Banking & Wealth industry at top executive positions
at BCH, Banco Santander, BNP-Paribas and from 2007 until 2016 as Senior Advisor to Rothschild
Bank and Group Edmond de Rothschild.
Javier is Partner, Board Member and/or Senior Advisor at multiple companies in the US, the UK, UAE,
India and Spain. He is also partner and board member at Lanta Capital and SBC and is the Chairman at
DVCapital and Balmoral Capital Partners. On a pro-bono basis, Javier was appointed Special Advisor to
the Board at the largest global Antarctica protection NGO, Antarctica and Southern Ocean Coalition,
in Washington DC in January 2015.
Javier holds a degree in Law, a BS in Financial Markets, a BS in International Trade, postgraduate
MBA degrees at MBS and CEOE and a specialisation in Corporate Negotiation-Carnegie Mellon.
He is a regular speaker at business schools, universities and professional forums in strategy, finance,
sustainable mobility, energy and motor sport related subjects. A devoted environmentalist, Javier’s
favourites sports and hobbies are skiing, race car driving, horse breeding, paddle tennis, reading and
has a passion for the companies he is involved with. He is married and is a father of 4 children.
Gerald Heydenreich
Investor, Senior advisor and Board member
Leading Marketing strategy in Olyseum
Founder and former CEO of BuyVIP -sold to Amazon					
A serial entrepreneur since 1998, he founded at the age of 25 the first European provider for b2b
reverse online auction and sourcing events, Portum. With a trading volume of more than 12 billion
USD and offices throughout Europe and the US, Portum became one of Europe’s leading providers for
internet-based sourcing and supplier management solutions. The company was sold to CapGemini /
IBX in 2006.
In 2006 he cofounded BuyVIP, a European leading private sales club offering luxury brands at reduced
prices in time limited campaigns. The company was sold to Amazon for years later by about half a
billion USD with more than 8 M members, 350 employees and revenues in excess of 150 M USD.
Wirtschaftswoche and Financial Times voted Gerald as one of the Top 100 german masterminds on
e-business. He was given the Budding Entrepreneur Award by GrowthPlus for demonstrating outstanding
entrepreneurial skills at a young age and was twice finalist in the competition “Entrepreneur of the
year”.
20

Part III
5. Token Details
5.1. Overview
This section covers the key details of the OLY utility
token, some general considerations regarding the
market, token sale and token distribution.
Olyseum will create and develop a business model
based on the sale and sponsorship of exclusive
experiences with world recognized stars, the
sponsors of challenges created in Olyseum to be
viralized in external social networks, as well as the
advertising revenue on the social media platform.
All this, with an emphasis on the acquisition and
retention of users, by leveraging the value of the
stars that are part of Olyseum.
· Our Vision: To be the main hub between celebrities
and their fans.
· Our Mission: Bringing celebrities closer to their
communities, allowing them to monetize audiences
and activity.
· Our Value Proposition: A unique social buying
experience with an embedded blockchain-based
rewards and loyalty program thought for fans.

5.2. The OLY Token
The OLY Token (OLY) is intended to have two main
functions on the Olyseum platform:
1. It may be used as part of the mechanism to
reward user’s engagement and gamify activities
within the Olyseum social media platform.

2. It may be used to access exclusive experiences
in the Olyseum marketplace, providing access to
VIP services. A maximum of 5Bn OLY Tokens will
be generated as a budget for different objectives
on the public platform. As a social network, we
want to bring millions of users, thousands of
stars with tens of millions of followers.
The OLY token aim to recreate the dynamics
of a “circular economy”. In a circular economy,
the resources within it are exchanged back and
forth among participants, with minimum “waste”
outside the system. As the economy adds more
participants to it, and as participants increase
their interactions, there is a natural increase of
demand for the means of exchange, which in
this case is the OLY token.

5.3. OLY Token Distribution
Maximum Supply: 5Bn OLY Tokens (mostly locked)
Initial Circulating Supply: 2M OLY Tokens
Initial Market Cap: 80, 000 USD

All the supply is divided in three big parts:
A) OLY Supply for Sale

40%
Sale

40% of the total supply (2Bn OLY Tokens).
30% (1,5Bn OLY Tokens) locked, 1Bn sold in
pre-sale (reference price 0,01 USD at ETH=700
USD) + 10% (500M OLY Tokens) reserved for
institutions by OTC.
A part will be used to add Liquidity with ETH.

Locked
Until Q2 2021, partially commited
to provide Pool Liquidity

21

B) OLY Supply for Growth

C) OLY Supply for Team

40%
Growth

Used long term

Locked

Locked

After Q2 2021 - Monthly 2021-23

1 year

Locked

LP programs Q2 2021 to Q2 2022

· Liquidity Providers: 10% (500M OLY Tokens)
Allocated to the Yield Farming program as
Liquidity Mining Rewards. These rewards are
used to incentivize Liquidity Providers to increase
liquidity in the pool for the pair OLY:ETH on the
decentralized exchange (or DEX) Uniswap, being
the biggest one in the world in terms of volume
and users.
· Top Stars: 10% (500M OLY Tokens)
Intended to encourage the recruitment of new
stars to be part of the Olyseum ecosystem and
for them to start spreading cryptocurrency
adoption through the OLY Token.
· Early Adopters: 3% (150M OLY Tokens)
Available for early adopters that hold OLY
Tokens purchased in the presale, as an incentive
to equilibrate circulating supply and demand.

20% of the total supply (1Bn OLY Tokens) are
allocated for the team, project developers,
advisors, senior board and founders of the
Olyseum platform and Olyseum SA.

5.4. OLY Token Unlocking Schedule
The total supply of Olyseum to be distributed
will have different conditions on the unlocking
schedule. This distribution will work as follows:
An initial 2M OLY tokens will be locked in the
Uniswap pool + 45 ETH (ETH at 1,890 USD).
A further 1,15B OLY Tokens are destined to
Incentives. This budget will be unlocked as
follows:
· Liquidity Providing Incentive (LPI): 500M OLY
Tokens will be destined to liquidity providers as
yield farming. These tokens will be gradually
unlocked starting on March 30, 2021 during
2021 and 2022.
· Top Stars Incentive (TSI): 500M OLY Tokens will
be allocated to stars joining Olyseum, converting
them into OLY Token holders, as an entrance
to the cryptocurrency world. These tokens will
have a minimum of 1 year lockup
22

2,5 years

· Marketing Activities: 17% (850M OLY Tokens)
Budget to be used exclusively for the company
operations, to boost the growth of the social+
platform, close partnerships and create alliances.

Team

Locked

40% of the total supply (2Bn OLY Tokens).
Intended to boost the growth of the platform.
This percentage distribution will be 17% for
Company Marketing activities and 23% for
incentives programs for Liquidity Providers, Stars
and Community Early Adopters):

20%

since the starting of each star agreement with
Olyseum SA. Olyseum starts with almost 40 top
stars with an approximate 200 million followers
on Instagram and Youtube.
· Early Adopters Incentive (EAI): 150M OLY
Tokens will be used to incentivize early adopters
that participated in the presale of our utility
token to hold them or use it on the platform.
The EAI mechanism will unlock tokens on a 24
months vesting basis, starting March 30, 2021,
regarding the holded amount.
Finally, 1Bn OLY Tokens for the Olyseum team
will remain locked at least two and a half years
after the OLY token issuance.

5.5. Holding OLY Tokens

To download MetaMask, go to https://metamask.
io and select from Android or iOS for mobile
application and select Chrome for desktop.
In order to receive your OLY Tokens, you will
need to generate an Ethereum wallet and copy
the address which can be done easily once you
have installed MetaMask. The copy of the wallet
address will be used in the claiming option after
connecting to the Olyseum unlock webpages.
We will explain below the step by step process
of copying the address using the MetaMask
Chrome extension for desktop:

1) Go to the Metamask website (metamask.io).
2) Click “Get Chrome Extension”.

The OLY Token is an ERC20 token based on the
Ethereum blockchain. It can be saved and traded
between Ethereum (ETH) wallets as a token
created with a smart contract, currently audited
by a third party.

3) Click “Add to Chrome”.

You can use your own Ethereum wallet or
alternatively, you can create a new one. To create
a new wallet, we recommend using MetaMask –
a crypto wallet and gateway to blockchain apps.
Available as a browser extension and as a mobile
app, MetaMask provides you with a key vault,
secure login credentials, token wallet, and token
exchange.

6) Read and agree to the terms and conditions.

MetaMask offers a simple and secure way to
connect to blockchain-based applications. You
have full control when interacting on the new
decentralized web, such as Uniswap, where the
OLY Token will be listed.

4) Click “Add Extension”.
5) Click on the Metamask logo (a fox) in the
upper right hand corner of your Google
chrome browser.

7) Enter a password and click “Create” to
create your wallet.
8) You will see a set of 12 “seed words” for
your vault. Click “Save Seed Words as File” and
copy the “MetaMask Seed Words” file to a safe
place. You will need it to access your vault.
9) Click “I’ve Copied It Somewhere Safe” once
your seed words file has been secured.
10) Copy the wallet address. Now you can
provide it to the Olyseum team in response to
the “Claim your tokens” mail from the Olyseum
team and use it to claim your Unlocked OLY
Tokens.

23

6. Legal Considerations
This document is provided for information
purposes only. This document is not to be
considered the final version of the White Paper,
and it will continue to change and evolve at the
sole discretion of Olyseum.
OLY qualifies as a utility token as such term
has been defined by the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority (FINMA) Guidelines on
ICOs published on February 16, 2018 (“FINMA’s
ICO Guidelines”). The OLY token purpose is
to confer digital access rights to services and
products within the Olyseum platform and related
applications which provide a channel for major
sporting personalities to have direct interactions
with their fans and offer them rewards and
exclusive content. The Olyseum platform and its
proposed main token utilities will have already
been developed and fully functional at the time of
the TGE. The OLY token will have no investment
purpose whatsoever and will neither be designed
nor created as an investment product or a security.
Therefore, the OLY token shall not be considered
as a security under Swiss laws and regulation
(including as a share, participation right, bond,
structured product, collective investment
schemes, derivative or other type of securities,
including uncertificated securities). The OLY token
is not subject to the authorization or supervision
by the FINMA.
The OLY Token will also serve as the exchange
unit for some transactions performed exclusively
within the Olyseum Platform. The issuance of the
OLY tokens, which main purpose will be to provide
access right to products and services within
the Olyseum platform, shall not be subjected
to the Swiss Anti-Money Laundering Act (AML)
given that the payment function is by default an

accessory function of the OLY token and given
that it is exclusively used within the Olyseum
platform. As a consequence, the OLY token shall
not be considered as a means of payment (that
can be used on a third party’s platform to acquire
goods or services) under the AML or be deemed
to be a “payment token/cryptocurrency” as such
terms have been defined in the FINMA’s ICO
Guidelines.
This document is neither a solicitation, an offer, a
recommendation nor a contract. This document
is for informative purposes only and does not
constitute, nor is it intended to be, a prospectus
within the meaning of applicable Swiss law
(including art. 652a or 1156 of the Swiss Code of
obligation) or an offer to sell, a solicitation of an
offer to buy an OLY token or a recommendation
from Olyseum and its affiliates.
This White Paper is not a contract and does
therefore not legally bind Olyseum or its affiliates.
This White Paper may not be used in any such
jurisdictions or in any circumstances in which this
White Paper, its content and/or the OLY tokens
are not authorized for distribution and/or are
unlawful.
Selling restrictions and limitations may be outlined
in the upcoming OLY Token sale’s documentation.

Olyseum Official legal partner in Switzerland

24

Whitepaper - v3.2

