Pantos Vision Paper

brought to you by the team at Bitpanda.com
with ♥ from Vienna

Executive Summary

The Bitpanda team developed a new project called Pantos:
The first multi-blockchain token system.

Problem
Ever since the introduction of Bitcoin in 2009, many new blockchain-based projects have been launched. The recent surge of these
alternatives indicates a movement away from a single cryptocurrency
focus to a variety of cryptocurrency-based applications built on top
of blockchain-based technology. However, severe drawbacks arise if
research and development efforts are not shared and communicated
effectively between them. Projects risk ending up as separate islands,
which ultimately slows down mass adoption of blockchain technology.

Aim
We believe that we can both strengthen the crypto ecosystem through deeper collaboration among different blockchain projects, and
protect and empower community members by facilitating movement
between blockchains via intuitive conversion of tokens.

Approach

2

Pantos is a blockchain project conceived by the team behind
Bitpanda and the First Multi-Blockchain Token System. Moreover,
Pantos is conceived as an open-source, open-innovation driven scientific research project. By collaboration with researchers at the prestigious Technical University of Vienna, together we will bring Token
Atomic Swap Technology (TAST) project to life and release the work as
an open-source technology capable of performing a vital role within
our digital future.

Advantages
As a multi-blockchain token system that allows for seamless crosschain token transfer, Pantos will:
•

Fostering Cooperation and promote Synergies
between blockchain platforms

•

enable real-time arbitrage between exchanges

•

offer a future-proof solution regardless of technological change

•

introduce a new metric to measure the real-time PAN usage and
distribution among blockchain platforms with the
blockchain domination index.

Roadmap
The Pantos Project will be rolled out in three phases, moving incrementally toward decentralisation and community ownership and control.
Phase one allows PAN to be shifted between multiple blockchains via
the Bitpanda platform. The second phase involves the release of a
public API facilitating automatic shifting of PAN between blockchains.
The third and final phase involves the utilisation of atomic swaps,
Lightning Networks and smart contract technologies to accomplish
the complete decentralisation of PAN trading.

Vision
We want to bring influential blockchain projects together, improve
communication between developers, researchers and users, and set
standards for on-chain tokens. Through open collaboration with these diverse stakeholders,we can determine best practice regarding issuance and exchange of PAN tokens on every blockchain.

3

00

Executive Summary

01

Motivation

02

Background
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5

03

Blockchain Technology
Cryptocurrency

Segregated Witness
Atomic Swaps

Lightning Network

Introducing Pantos
3.1
3.1.1

Seamless: Cross-Chain Token Transfers
Real-Time Cross-Chain Arbitrage
Blockchain Domination Index

3.1.2
3.2

04

Roadmap
4.1
4.1.1
4.2
4.3
4.4

05

5.2
5.3
5.4
5.5
5.6
5.7

General Guidelines for becoming a part of Pantos

Phase One: Proof-of-Concept & Interim Solution
Phase Two: Automation

Phase Three: Decentralisation

Distribution Formula
Referral Program

Company Reserve
Team

Bounties

Bitpanda Airdrop
Timeline

Team
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5

07

Current Phase: Growing the Pantos Community

Initial Coin Offering
5.1

06

Advancing Market Readiness of Decentralized Blockchain Solutions

Bitpanda

Technical Advisors & Partners
Industry Partners

Strategic and Legal Partners

Universities and Scientific Partners

Contact

Chapter 1

Motivation

Ever since the introduction of Bitcoin in 2009, many new blockchain-based projects have been launched, each with their own set of
features and specifications. While Bitcoin aims primarily to facilitate
trustless accounting and transactions, newer projects such as Ethereum incorporate the ability write and execute decentralised code.
Meanwhile, Litecoin, a currency created by former Google engineer
Charlie Lee as a side-project in 2011, has been able to establish itself
as a worthy Bitcoin alternative, lowering transaction processing time
and fees through adjustments to the size and frequency of blocks.
Other coins differentiate themselves by enhancing key concepts in
cryptocurrency such as privacy (Dash, Monero, Zcash) or stability in
value (e.g. Tether). The number of cryptocurrencies and tokens available on the internet today exceeds 1,400, with new blockchain-based
tokens launched every day. The surge in the value, of not only Bitcoin
but especially its more recent derivatives, indicates a movement away
from a single cryptocurrency focus (Bitcoin) toward a broad ecology
of cryptocurrency-based applications built on top of a network of separate, but related blockchains.

With the rapid increase in blockchain-based projects comes the risk of
ineffective communication between both developer teams and endusers. This scenario leads to non-productive competition between developers, deters talented new minds from entering the crypto space
and alienates end users, who use online discourse to choose between
the vast multitude of available cryptocurrencies. This increases the
probability of failure of blockchain projects, negatively affects valuation of all cryptocurrencies, and ultimately hinders mass adoption of
the blockchain technology.

6
6

According to a study by Deloitte, 92 per cent of the blockchain projects launched in the last three years have ultimately stagnated or
failed. In fact, this is a reality not just for blockchain technology, but
for open source development in general, with most projects ending
up abandoned, superseded, or failing to achieve a meaningful scale. Despite sharp rises in the valuation of many well-known cryptocurrencies in recent years, the blockchain space is far from immune
to the dangers associated with open-source development. Our conclusion, therefore, is that deep and sustained collaboration between
blockchain projects, currencies and communities is vital to the value
of the crypto ecosystem as a whole. The keystone to such a fruitful
collaboration, we feel, is the development of technology that allows
freer movement of tokens and value between existing blockchains;
increasing the fungibility of crypto tokens will necessarily improve the
health of the ecosystem as a whole, for users, developers and researchers alike.

7
7

Chapter 2

Background

2.1

Blockchain Technology
Blockchain technology offers a way to securely and permanently record data using cryptography. Publicly owned nodes store a complete
recording of past and present “blocks” of data, and are constantly
synchronised in order to ensure the validity of new entries into the database. The individual blocks are linked by mathematical algorithms,
forming a long chain. After being written into the blockchain, data in a
block cannot be subsequently changed without the consent and consensus of the network. Blocks are created through a process known as
mining, which involves cryptographically grouping recent transactions
into a new block, and adding this block to the existing chain. Miners
are rewarded for this task with newly-minted units (block rewards), as
well as with transaction fees included specified by users when making
a transaction (transaction fees).
While the best known implementations of blockchain technology is as
a cryptocurrency, generally speaking, the possible use-cases of blockchains extend far beyond the domain of finance. As the technology
has matured, nascent systems have emerged that use the blockchain
to record events, prove the existence and ownership of documents,
manage citizen identity, store medical records, and to track the origins
and movements of physical commodities such as food and produce.
Further novel uses of blockchain technology are constantly in development worldwide.

2.2

9
9

Cryptocurrency
Cryptocurrencies are digital assets designed that store and exchange
value. Cryptography ensures the validity of transactions and ownership, while hard-coded rules can be used limit the total supply of currency, both in the present and future. The Bitcoin protocol and currency,
conceived in 2008 by an anonymous person or group called Satoshi

Nakamoto, and implemented in 2009, today represents not only the
first and most popular cryptocurrency, but also the first working implementation of blockchain technology in general.
Unlike centralised electronic banking systems, the Bitcoin protocol (as
well as most other cryptocurrencies) operate under distributed and
decentralised ownership and control. Since all Bitcoin transactions are
visible on the blockchain, and since cryptographic techniques ensure
that each user can not spend units more than once, in cryptocurrencies render obsolete key functions of traditional banking systems as
trusted third parties that can validate ownership and transfer of value.
Instead, these encryption techniques take over the roles of clearing
houses and other intermediaries.

Smart Contracts
Smart contracts were first described by Nick Szabo in 1996, and refer
to computer protocols that facilitate, verify, and enforce the negotiation and execution of contracts. Many types of contractual clauses can be made partially or even completely self-executed, self-enforced, or both. Smart contracts have the goal of providing greater
security than traditional contract law and thus, have the potential to
reduce costs associated with contracting. Currently, smart contracts
are implemented based on blockchains and associated with cryptocurrencies, but are likely to figure into novel blockchain developments
in the near future.

2.3

10
10

Segregated Witness
Segregated Witness, or SegWit, was initially proposed as a partial solution to the Bitcoin scaling debate. It is an amendment to the Bitcoin
protocol, also known as a “soft fork”, activated in 2017. SegWit changes the format of transactions within blocks, reducing transaction
size and therefore increasing the number of transactions that can be
included in a block. More specifically, SegWit splits a transaction into
two segments: the sender and recipient data is stored separately to
sensitive data like scripts and signatures, which are moved to the new
„witness“ structure. This witness structure is counted as only a quarter
of its actual size when determining its contribution to a block, thus
making it possible to fit more transactions into a block. This change
serves two purposes: An attack class called malleability attacks is mitigated, and furthermore, due to the reduced block size, the number
of transactions recorded in a block is increased. At the same time,
SegWit results in faster payment channels, as it lowers the cryptogra-

phic workload, simply appending signatures from the transaction as
a separate structure after the main part of the transaction has been
processed.
Since its successful implementation for Bitcoin, it has also been incorporated into other cryptocurrencies, such as Litecoin, Decred and
Vertcoin.

2.4

Atomic Swaps
Atomic swaps allow for the instant exchange of cryptocurrencies between two parties on two different blockchains, peer-to-peer, at previously agreed terms and without the need for third parties to oversee
or facilitate the transaction. This technology enables instant transfers
between multiple cryptocurrencies in a completely trustless manner
and with zero counterparty risk, as transactions either complete successfully in full, or are canceled and all coins returned to the original
owners. The main objective of the atomic swap technology is to create interoperability between blockchains, allowing seamless, near-instant direct trades between cryptocurrencies and other digital assets.
The concept of atomic swaps is not new: it was introduced as atomic cross-chain transactions by Tier Nolan in 2013. Development of a
working implementation of atomic swap technology has taken some
time, but technological breakthroughs such as SegWit have made the
realisation possible: very recently, developers from the major crypto
projects have begun testing and even completing atomic swaps. Komodo’s lead developer, JL777, who recognised value in Tier Nolan’s
concept, built the necessary framework and his first atomic swap just
a year later in 2014. Since then, numerous atomic swaps have been
proven viable. In 2017, developers from Decred created the first functioning cryptocurrency atomic swap between Decred (DCR) and Litecoin (LTC). Meanwhile, altcoin.io carried out the world’s first atomic
swap between the Ethereum and Bitcoin blockchains, and Litecoin
Founder Charlie Lee, announced on Twitter the successful on-chain
atomic swap of 1 LTC for 55 VTC with James Lovejoy, Lead Developer
of Vertcoin.

11
11

How it Works
An atomic swap is, from the user’s perspective, very similar to a regular cryptocurrency transaction, but allows cross-trading of multiple currencies. Using the built-in scripting languages of a given cryptocurrency (e.g Script for Bitcoin, Solidity for Ethereum), one current
technical implementation of an atomic swap system creates hashed
time-locked contracts, which, in turn, utilize the multisignature and
time lock features available in the basic scripting language used
for most cryptocurrencies currently in existence to synchronize two
transactions on two independent blockchains without having to trust
each other. The digital signatures act as a functioning escrow that
prevent one party from sending coins to another party, and not receiving the bargained for swapped coins in return.

The Atomic Swap Process
Both parties, in our example Alice and Bob, submit their individual
transaction to the appropriate blockchain:
Alice sends Y coins on Blockchain Y.
Bob sends Z coins on Blockchain Z.
Alice claim Bob’s Z coins and reveals her secret number (X) publicly
on Blockchain Z.
Bob can find X on Blockchain Z and use it to claim Y coins
on Blockchain Y.

12
12

The recipient can only claim his/her desired coins by revealing a secret
number, X, which is the missing piece needed for the other party to
claim coins. This results in a coupling of the two transactions, despite
the fact that each took place on a different blockchains.
Key to a successful atomic swap system is the prevention of loss in the
event of non-cooperation by one or more parties during the process
of exchange. Through the above described procedure, both parties’
coins are returnable if the other party fails to cooperate. Either the
timer expires, and they get their coins back, or X is revealed and both
Alice and Bob are able to receive their desired currency, without any
commission taken by the token-swapping protocol.
The cross-chain swap described above is based on CheckLockTimeVerify (CLTV), a soft-fork update proposed by Bitcoin Core Developer
Peter Todd. Essentially, it allows users to create a Bitcoin transaction
of which the outputs are time-locked until a specified date, or until
a certain number of blocks has been mined. CLTV is necessary for
properly functional payment channels, because the use of a timelock acts as a failsafe in the case of non-cooperation of one or more
parties. Channels implementing CLTV effectively facilitate a series of
“off-chain” transactions, while retaining all the security of typical onchain transactions and adding possible additional benefits such as
escrow.

Status Quo
Current implementations of atomic swaps are neither easy-to-use or
private. Merkleized Abstract Syntax Trees (MASTs) have been proposed as a privacy improvement. Assuming their eventual integration
into Bitcoin and other digital currencies, MASTs have the potential to
significantly improve privacy by obfuscating sender and recipient information. Other difficulties for current atomic swap systems include
the fact that transaction partners must first find each other, that both
have to agree to fixed terms before the transaction, and that several
transactions are still ultimately required on multiple blockchains.

Future Outlook and Potential

13
13

While atomic swaps have been successfully conducted using prototype systems, the current lack of user-friendliness hinders widespread
mainstream adoption of the technology. Demand and need for
easy-to-use atomic swap technology will only increase; for this rea-

son, we find it timely to begin active development of a high-quality,
open-source atomic swapping protocol, believing that facilitation of
currency swapping will have the additional benefit of bringing currently separate blockchain-based projects closer together, enhancing
cooperation, reducing duplicated efforts, and resulting in a healthier
crypto ecosystem.

2.5

Lightning Networks
The Lightning Network is an infrastructure built on top of the Bitcoin
protocol that facilitates instant and high-volume micropayments,
while retaining Bitcoin’s core values of decentralisation and trustlessness. It is one of the first implementations of a multi-party Smart Contract that uses Script, the built-in scripting language of Bitcoin.

Instant Micropayments and Scalability
Currently, Bitcoin transactions are neither instant nor free. With Bitcoin, payments are widely regarded as confirmed after six or more
block confirmations (i.e. inclusion of the transaction within a block,
and the inclusion of this block within five blocks to follow). Because
Bitcoin blocks are generated at intervals of approximately ten minutes, full agreement regarding a transaction’s existence can easily
take over an hour. This problem is exacerbated when the transaction
pays a very low mining fee, which disincentivises miners from including the transaction in an upcoming block. Furthermore, the increase
in popularity of Bitcoin has made space within blocks more precious;
at multiple points in 2017, for example, Bitcoin fees rose to all-timehighs, as users clamoured for space within crowded blocks.

14
14

On the Lightning Network, however, payments don‘t require block
confirmations, nor do they compete for space within blocks. Instead,
they are instant and atomic, and thus more convenient for use at
retail point-of-sale terminals, or anywhere else where transaction
speed is a high priority. Furthermore, Lightning opens the possibility
for micropayments, and therefore potentially an entirely new market. By moving small transactions off-chain, and settling only when
one or more parties wish to, fees are kept minimal, and actual use
of the blockchain is reserved for more critical transactions. Lightning
networks are therefore particularly well-suited for the ever-increasing
use of internet connected devices, which handle an increasing proportion of all transactions, and figure more and more prominently
into points of sale.

How it Works
The specification for using the Lightning Network relies on SegWit,
which is already active for Bitcoin, Litecoin, Vertcoin and other blockchains. Lightning Network payment channels can be opened committing funds to a two-party, multisignature „channel“ address on the
relevant blockchain. This funding transaction acts as a public ledger
entry, under which users can carry out any number of off-chain Lightning transactions. The various created channels form a network, through which new transactions can find paths, allowing transactions
between channels that are not directly linked. A decrementing timelock script enforces either a complete, successful payment within a
given period of time, or, upon failure, the nullification of the payment.

15

Only when a channel owner decides to close his/her channel does
the final balance of both parties get updated on the blockchain. This
allows for unlimited transactions off-blockchain, with a comparable
level of security and trust of an on-blockchain transaction.

The real-world equivalent of this technology is the conclusion of legal
contracts between many parties without the need to be in court every
time a contract is signed. You gain legal certainty of the contract and
only in case of non-cooperation must disputes be challenged in court.
However, in the case of Lightning Network payment channels, the ruling from the court is replaced by the deterministic result of the blockchain.

Altcoin Lightning Networks.
Although the Lightning Network was originally designed for Bitcoin,
other currencies forked from Bitcoin’s codebase (e.g. Litecoin, Dogecoin, Zcash) are also capable of hosting lightning networks. Similar
solutions can be accomplished for non-Bitcoin-derived protocols as
well (e.g. the Raiden Network for Ethereum). Importantly, Lightning
Networks use hash time-locked contracts to link payment channels in
the same way that atomic swaps link blockchains.

Cross-Chain Lightning Networks.
Because most cryptocurrency implementations share core components, and given the viability of atomic swaps described above, the
development of interoperable, cross-chain Lightning Networks becomes a realistic possibility. Importantly, cross-chain Lightning Networks
would have mutual benefits for the blockchains involved, and their
users: for example, with such a system, Bitcoin-to-Bitcoin payments
could be performed by Litecoin peers if they happen to be cheaper.

16

Chapter 3

Introducing Pantos

Pantos01 is an initiative conceived by the team behind Bitpanda, aiming to serve as a lighthouse project in an increasingly fragmented
blockchain space. Within this landscape of innumerable blockchains
serving increasingly diverse purposes, Pantos seeks to provide channels for both communication and cross-chain exchanges of data and
value. Ameliorating current barriers to partnership and collaboration
between developers, institutions and users will speed up innovation
in blockchain research and technology, linking currently separate
blockchains so that they can scale and mature together. To further
encourage collaboration and a free flow of ideas, Pantos will be
developed as an open-source scientific research project, collaborating on atomic swap based technology with researchers at the Technical University of Vienna, and on open-innovation driven knowledge
generation through collaboration with exploration space @ ÖAW, a
working group within the Austrian Academy of Sciences.

01 The prefix pan- is derived from the Greek πãv, used in English for
‘all’, or more liberally, ‘everything’. The second syllable, -tos, is
simply a shortening for Token System.

18
18

3.1

Seamless Cross-Chain Token Transfers
Pantos will enable seamless cross-chain token transfers by creating a
standardised interface for interacting with multiple blockchains and
by establishing the first multi-blockchain token system. Through partnering with major blockchain platforms, the PAN token will be introduced on their blockchains, allowing seamless transfers of value between them. Pantos users can transfer their PAN from one blockchain
to another for any reason, without any additional charges beyond
any transaction fees paid to miners. Should a user desire to move
PAN, a target blockchain to migrate to must simply be chosen.
The development of a cross-chain token benefit applications and
ecosystems on participating blockchain projects in a number of ways:

•

Fostering Cooperation - Promoting Synergies

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		

Under the framework of the Austrian national initiative for Open
Innovation, we aim to encourage cooperation between various
projects in the crypto economy. Best practices and standards 		
on key issues such as atomic swaps, transaction fees and
Lightning Networks can only be established through an open
dialogue with diverse participants in the crypto community. 		
Through our collaboration with exploration space @ ÖAW, we will
organise meetups, panels and hackathons that lead to
open-source solutions to key issues in the blockchain ecosystem,
building stronger links between blockchains,
their developers and users.

•

Future-Security regardless of Technological Changes

•

Real-Time Cross-Blockchain Arbitrage and a new metric

		Pantos and the PAN token have major benefits for blockchains
		
and their users. For blockchains, PAN provides a new point 		
		
of access and new stream of value; for users, Pantos provides a
		
means of easily migrating to a preferred chain; it therefore
		
eliminates the risk of having value stuck on projects that are
		
compromised, abandoned or which devalue over time.

19
19

		Pantos will make visible for the first time exactly how value flows
between blockchain projects. Using the PAN token traders will
		
		
therefore be able to exploit emerging price differences between
		
cryptocurrency pairs. For this reason, associated with the
		
development of Pantos will be the development of a system
		
for tracking value migration between blockchains.
		
This new index, the Blockchain Domination Index, will be a useful
tool for end-users aiming to exploit differences in the valuation
		
		
of a given currency pair.

3.1.1

Real-Time Cross-Chain Arbitrage
Arbitrage is the execution of financial transactions in order to benefit
from price differences that the same asset can have in different markets. More specifically, arbitrage represents the ability to profit from
these differences until they diminish to zero, which often occurs due
to the execution of the arbitrage transactions themselves. Generally,
fully functioning open markets have almost perfectly aligned values
between exchanges. If differences in price emerge, they can be exploited for profit via arbitrage, which will in turn lead them to close
very quickly again.

Arbitrage opportunities with PAN
Because PAN will be exchangeable on different blockchains on a onefor-one basis, the market introduction of PAN on various exchanges
will cause price differences in the same token against different currencies. Initially, traders will be in a position to exploit emerging price
differences between cryptocurrency pairs and use PAN as a universal
denominator token to profit. With increasing acceptance and growth,
opportunities of arbitrage trading using PAN will be efficiently exploited; the introduction of Pantos could therefore add needed stability
to the currently volatile cryptocurrency trading market.
Arbitrage
Arbitrage
Profit
Profit
Arbitrage Profit

End:
End:

Start:
Start:
End:

PAN/BTC
PAN/BTC
= 0,00001
= 0,00001
PAN/BTC = 0,00001

1,1 1,1
BTC
BTC

20
20

1,1 BTC

Start:

PAN/ETH
PAN/ETH
= 0,0001
= 0,0001
PAN/ETH = 0,0001

1010
ETH
ETH

Rate
Rate
changes
changes
from
from
Assumptation:
Assumptation:
Rate changes from
Assumptation:
ETH/BTC
ETH/BTC
= 0,1
= 0,1
BTC
BTC
devalues
devalues
10%
10%
compared
compared
toto
ETH,
ETH,
ETH/BTC = 0,1
BTC devalues
10%
compared
to ETH,
the
the
corresponding
corresponding
PAN
PAN
rate
rate
doesn‘t
doesn‘t
change
change
the—corresponding
PAN raterises
doesn‘t
quickly
quickly
enough
enough
—
arbitrage
arbitrage
opportunity
opportunity
rises change ETH/BTC
ETH/BTC
= 0,11
= 0,11
quickly enough — arbitrage opportunity rises
ETH/BTC = 0,11

10 ETH

3.1.2

Blockchain Domination Index
Real-time metric for token usage and distribution across networks.

0–100% Percent of Pantos
Distribution among Blockhchains

100%
Blockchain 1

Blockchain 2

Blockchain 3

0%
Month 1

Month 2

Month 3

Month 4

Month 5

Month 6

Pantos’ portability feature allows PAN to become the first universal
denominator token. This will allow for the introduction of a new crypto economic metric: a Blockchain Dominance Index, which will show
real-time token usage and distribution among blockchains and, thus,
can measure each blockchain‘s significance for PAN. Moreover, when
users successfully adopt PAN, its flow between blockchain projects
could provide a reliable metric that captures public confidence in a
given project’s vitality, opening up a pathway toward predictive analytics in cryptocurrency valuation, and in valuation of the crypto ecosystem as a whole.

21
21

3.2

Advancing Market-Readiness of Decentralised Blockchain Solutions
Pantos is not only the first multi-blockchain token system, but also an
open-source scientific research project aiming to further decentralise
blockchain solutions and increase their suitability for the mass market.
It is a foregone conclusion that the future of the internet is decentralised, with blockchain technologies forming a major component within
a broad, distributed network. Therefore, we are partnering up with
universities, research institutions and knowledge hubs to accelerate
the research efforts on decentralised blockchain technologies (e.g.
atomic swaps, payment channels, etc.) to build decentralised solutions suitable for the mass market that are reliable, open and provably fair.
Living up to their reputation as highly esteemed partners of innovation-oriented enterprises, TU Wien provides us with dedicated research
staff for a joint project entitled ‘Token Atomic Swap Technologies’
(TAST). The project is supervised by Dr. Stefan Schulte, Assistant Professor for Industrial Cyber-Physical Systems at TU Wien. The core aim
of TAST is the the introduction of atomic swap technologies into the
Pantos Project by the Distributed Systems Group (DSG) of the TU Wien.
Based on insights gained from this project, prototypes of on-chain
atomic swaps will be built to demonstrate the mass market suitability.
On-chain atomic swaps are a critical current issue in the blockchain
community. While initial working prototypes and APIs are now available, these are not yet mature enough for widespread adoption by
end-users. Currently, another interface is needed to exchange information outside the participating blockchains. So far, this interface
had to be set up manually by the parties involved in the swap. TAST
aims to improve these kinds of utility transfers through automated
means of exchange.
The research results gained from the TAST project could extend to
Pantos, functioning as a traffic monitoring and management system,
locating and establishing atomic swaps and Lightning Networks. The
creation of such a system could greatly facilitate the mainstream
market access to decentralisation technology.

22
22

Chapter 4

Decentralised solutions for a decentralised currency

Based on the current state of knowledge, much further research on
decentralisation technologies (smart contracts, atomic swaps, and
the Lightning Network) is still necessary to reach this goal. Therefore,
we place a public call for collaboration within our “decentralisation
research project”, welcoming research institutions, blockchain businesses, and crypto enthusiasts in general.
Our firm conviction is that the coming era of a decentralised web
necessitates the development of spaces in which people with different kinds of expertise can collaborate and develop innovative tools
and products. For us, Pantos is first and foremost intended as a way
to foster a healthier, fairer and more open crypto ecosystem, while at
the same time honouring and preserving the key qualities of privacy,
trustlessness and decentralisation that have recently brought cryptocurrency into the imagination of the general public for the first time.
Our aim of creating an open community for blockchain and cryptocurrency will therefore be undertaken in collaboration with exploration space @ ÖAW, a research group within the Austrian Academy of
Sciences that focuses on the development and analysis of new strategies for innovation. In this partnership, we will organise hackathons
and meetups to create open-access solutions for key issues affecting
the crypto ecosystem, such as optimal transaction fee calculation.
These workshops will foster engagement between students, academic institutions, industry and the public, aligning with Austria‘s official
Open Innovation Strategy. The Pantos community will therefore be an
example of Open Innovation in action, with the exploration space @
ÖAW providing analysis and expertise, and publishing research papers on the theme of novel open knowledge generation strategies.

24

Roadmap

Transparency and openness have always been inalienable values in
the crypto space. Therefore, instead of submerging after the completed ICO for a few years to do “research in stealth mode”, we aim
to rapidly assemble working solutions using currently available technology. We do this because we firmly believe that open, transparent
communication between diverse stakeholders yields better results
than secretly working for months or years to meet (over-)promised results in highly orchestrated unveilings.
We will follow a lean and agile approach, developing a multi-blockchain token system iteratively and with thorough testing at all milestones. To accomplish our ultimate vision, we have established four
smaller milestone phases, each with its own set of deliverables. These
are outlined below.

4.1

Current Phase - Growing the Pantos Community
Pantos is centred on the notion of improving communication and collaboration within the crypto space. Therefore, we have already signed
up the Lisk, Waves, Komodo and Stratis projects as industry partners.
Our collaboration with exploration space @ ÖAW, mentioned earlier,
will ensure best practices in the design of communication platforms
capable of generating innovation in the blockchain space.

25

We are also in the process of reaching out to other stakeholders within and outside of blockchain and cryptocurrency communities, with
the intention on forming further collaborations and partnerships. Institutional Involvement in Pantos during this first stage has tangible benefits, such as direct influence on key design parameters and
decision-making processes. At the same time, collaborators are incentivised through additional positive public exposure in connection
with a community-driven, open-source project that benefits the entire
crypto ecosystem. Finally, partnership within the Pantos project will be
rewarded with listing of their cryptocoin on Bitpanda.com, Europe’s
leading digital asset broker platform.

4.1.1

General Guidelines for becoming a part of Pantos
Connection of the PAN token to major chains is critical to the success
of the project, as it would mark the beginning of an interoperability
standard between most public blockchains. For this reason, we aim to
reach out to blockchain-based development networks and individuals who:

•

Share our interest in a multi-token and cross-blockchain future

•

Are ready and able to incorporate emerging standards (such as
Ethereum’s ERC20 token standard) in their blockchain project

•

Maintain an active interest in emerging developments in the
blockchain environment, such as atomic swaps and the Lightning
Network

Feel free to contact us for any advice on how to support Pantos with
your cryptocurrency project.

26
26

4.2

Phase One - Proof of Concept and Interim Solution
Truly decentralised protocols such as Bitcoin are still ultimately in their
infancy. Our vision—the decentralisation of cross-blockchain trade—
is, like Bitcoin itself, an ambitious one, requiring technologies that are
at this stage theoretically possible, but lacking implementation . That
said, it is possible for us to provide an initial, centralised proof of concept, providing a platform on which the later goal of decentralisation can be accomplished. Therefore, the first version of Pantos will be
an interim solution, with the existing Bitpanda.com platform serving
as the key connecting piece of technology between blockchains. In
this way, we can demonstrate to our users almost immediately after
launch, how fast PAN can be transferred between blockchains.

Cold Storage

Platform

User

Wallet

Bitpanda.com

ETH
T

BTC
T

NXT
T

Deposit

User

Chooses
Blockchain

Wallet
T

Withdraw

OTHER
T

Example: Moving PAN from Ethereum to Bitcoin Blockchain
If the user wants to transfer his PAN to another Blockchain, all he
needs to do is to deposit PAN to his Bitpanda Wallet and select his
desired target Blockchain when withdrawing them again.

User

27
27

Deposit

Bitpanda Wallet

Select Blockchain

BTC Pantos

Withdraw
10

10

10

4.3

Phase Two - Automation
Following the rollout of a proof-of-concept implementation in Phase
1, we will shift focus to automation. Through the development of a dedicated, open-source Pantos API, users will no longer be bound to any
specific interface, and will therefore be able to perform systematic
(algorithmic) trading. This way, while still able to utilise, the Bitpanda platform adopters will also have the flexibility to design and implement their own trading UXs/UI’s for automatic transfers between
blockchains, while the settlement continues to run via the Bitpanda
platform. This phase, therefore, allows users to program trading bots
to perform automated arbitrage.

Cold Storage

Platform

API

Wallet

BTC
T

NXT
T

OTHER
T

28
28

Bitpanda.com

ETH
T

Deposit

API
Withdraw

Chooses
Blockchain

Wallet
T

4.4

Phase Three - Decentralisation
In the third and final phase, Pantos will represent a critical advancement in blockchain technology, functioning as a fully decentralised
multi-blockchain token system, and as a de facto open-source standard for cross-chain token transfers. The complete technical specifications for the system will be published in peer-reviewed, open-source
research papers, and as a publicly accessible technical whitepaper. In
short, similar to a decentralised autonomous counterparty organisation, PAN tokens will interact via various distributed smart contracts
to facilitate trades. Users will be able to meet and exchange PAN tokens directly between blockchains with no centralised party involved.

29
29

Chapter 4

Initial Coin Offering
5.1

Total Supply						
40%

ICO							

10%

Team		

40%
9%
1%

Retained Reserve by Pantos GmbH
Bounties		

Bitpanda Airdrop				

1,000,000,000 PAN
400,000,000 PAN
400,000,000 PAN
100,000,000 PAN
90,000,000 PAN
10,000,000 PAN

During the initial coin offering (ICO), Pantos as a company will issue
digital currency tokens called Pantos (PAN). Forty per cent of the total
PAN supply will be available to the public. Participants of the ICO can
obtain a maximum of 400,000,000 PAN, which are offered at a
hard cap of 1,500 BTC.
All supported digital currencies on Bitpanda.com are accepted. Currently, this includes Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Dash, Bitcoin Cash
and Ripple. At the end of the ICO, all raised digital currencies will be
converted into Bitcoin. The conversion rates will be derived from the
corresponding Euro values of the respective currencies.

5.2

Distribution Formula
PAN tokens will be distributed according to the following formula:

Investor A participates with 0,01 BTC in total amount of 1,000 BTC is raised

31
31

The retained amount of PAN will be used as follows:
Company Reserve
400,000,000 PAN are reserved for optimal future fundraising but
will never be offered for sale below ICO price in BTC terms.

Team
100,000,000 PAN or ten per cent of all the total supply will be
allocated as a motivational tool to align the interest of the Pantos
management and development team with the ICO investors.

Bounties
To aid in the technical development of Pantos, we will introduce a
bounty program for individuals and companies that want to participate. A total of 90,000,000 PAN are reserved for this. Possible
receivers can be Blockchain development teams, exchanges, influencers, service providers, or interested end-users.
Further, by participating in the Pantos referral program, users will
receive five per cent of the value of Pantos tokens (PAN) purchased
by your referees.

32
32

5.6

Bitpanda Airdrop
Ensuring that Pantos kick starts with a large user base, 10,000,000
PAN will be airdropped to eligible Bitpanda account holders. Eligible Bitpanda users are those who accept the Pantos terms of service.
They can claim their airdrops in their Bitpanda accounts throughout
the entire runtime of the ICO and will receive an equal share of the
airdropped PAN, irrespective of their past or current account balance. Bitpanda users who open accounts when the ICO is running already will also have the opportunity to participate in the airdrop.

5.7

33
33

Timeline

Chapter 5

Team

6.1

Bitpanda
Bitpanda has grown to become one of the the largest group of individuals in European teams working on blockchain, digital currency technology and the future of the overall digital currency ecosystem, with
more than 60 people working in our Viennese headquarters. The team
has a proven track record of success, having built and grown a leading cryptocurrency brokerage platform, offering Bitcoin, Ethereum,
Litecoin, Dash, Bitcoin Cash and Ripple, as well as fully integrated EUR
trading via in-house-developed wallet solutions for all digital assets.

Paul Klanschek
Co-Founder & Co-CEO of Bitpanda,
MSc. in Banking & Finance (WU Vienna),
Bitcoin and Blockchain insider since
2010, Komodo Platform Ambassador

Eric Demuth
Co-Founder & Co-CEO of Bitpanda,
Serial entrepreneur in Pament
& Gaming for 7+ years

Ing. Christian Trummer

35
35

Co-Founder & CTO of Bitpanda,
Serial entrepreneur for more than
10 years, (SaaS projects, Optimizing OEE in
food industry, etc..) Author of “Efficient
Web Programming”

Dipl.-Ing. Michael Borkowski
TU Wien Research Representative
Michael finished his bachelor‘s degree in
Software & Information Engineering in 2012,
and finished his master‘s degree in Software
Engineering & Internet Computing in 2015.
He is currently a project assistant and pursuing his PhD at the Distributed Systems
Group (Institute of Information Systems,
TU
Wien)
and
involved
in
the
CREMA - Cloud-based Rapid Elastic
Manufacturing project.

Ing. Johannes Grill
…is a founding member and president of
Bitcoin Austria. He has been active in the
bitcoin space since 2011, organizes events
or acts as a lecturer and is available to the
media as an interview partner. Professionally, Johannes has been working as a software
developer for international payments for several years and has been active as an entrepreneur focusing on banking and financial
information technology.

Andreas Petersson
…has been a software developer for 15 years.
Since 2011 he has worked intensively with
Bitcoin and co-founded Bitcoin Austria. In
2012, he started working for Mycelium, where he was one of the main developers of the
Mycelium Bitcoin Wallet, which makes it possible to safely manage Bitcoins on mobiles..

36
36

Ralph Pichler
Ethereum veteran and smart contracts expert from Austria, Co-Founder of the RIAT
Blockchain Research institute (https://riat.at)

James JL777 (Komodo)
Jl777 is the anonymous mind behind the Komodo and Supernet projects, an extremely
gifted C developer with financial experience
and a clear vision for the future of crypto. He
acts as an advisor for numerous crypto projects and, following closely key developments
in the whole crypto space. He helps the promising projects by providing feedback and
looks for ways to use the technology in his
own projects.

Patrick Pöschl - Fintech Austria
Having worked at Goldman Sachs until 2014,
Patrick is Fintech entrepreneur, founder of
Scalable Capital as well as chairman of community association Fintech Austria.

Max Kordek
Co-Founder & President of Lisk
… Max first read about blockchain technology at the end of 2012, he immediately realized its great potential. That was the moment
he decided to place all of his focus on the
technology. He immersed himself in various
crypto communities and soaked up as much
knowledge as he could. Today, he is working
relentlessly to help the industry gain traction
with an accessible and easy-to-use Sidechain
Developer Kit.

37
37

Sasha Ivanov
Founder & CEO of Waves
A physicist by education, Sasha Ivanov has
been involved in Internet payment systems
software development and neural network
prediction software for financial markets. After the emergence of blockchain technology
he launched the first instant cryptocurrency
exchange coinomat.com, the first fiat blockchain token coinoUSD, and the first tradable
cryptocurrency index coinoindex.com

​ ieger​
Paul​ R
Head of Business Development NEM Europe
​ ​ ​promoter​ o
​ f​ b
​ lockchain​ t​ echnology
Paul ​is​ a
​ nd​ a
​ n​ a
​ dvocate​ ​of​ ​the​ ​
and crypto-literacy,​ a
NEM​ b
​ lockchain​ w
​ hich​ l​ ed to​ t​ he​ f​ oundati​ f​ N
​​ EM​ ​Vienna​​ i​ n​ ​June​ 2
​ 017.​ W
​ hen​ ​not
on​ o
​ ieger​ ​is​ c
​ ombining​ h
​ is​ s​ oftware​ ​
educating,​ R
engineering background​ ​with​ h
​ is​ e
​ ntrepre​ xperience​ t​ o​ d
​ esign​ a
​ nd develop​ ​
neurial​ e
blockchain-based​ s​ olutions​ ​and​ ​prototypes​ ​
for​ t​ he private​ a
​ nd​ p
​ ublic​ ​sector.

Dr.-Ing. Stefan Schulte
Distributed Systems Group & TU Wien
Dr.-Ing. Stefan Schulte is Assistant Professor (Tenure Track) for Industrial
Cyber-Physical Systems at TU Wien.
Findings from his research have been published in more than 80 refereed scholarly
publications, including publications in hightier journals like Information Systems, IEEE
Transactions on Services Computing, and
Future Generation Computer Systems.

38
38

39

Chapter 6

Industry Partners
Lisk
Nowadays, we have Apple’s App Store and
Google’s Play Store - both centralised solutions owned by corporations for centralised
applications. The Lisk Foundation believes in
a decentralised future. In order to achieve
this, Lisk strives to make blockchain technology accessible for everybody by building
a blockchain application platform for users
and developers.

Waves
The Waves Platform is a global public blockchain platform, founded in 2016. Waves
Platform’s mission is to reinvent the DNA of
entrepreneurship around the world by providing a shared infrastructure, offering easy-to-use, highly functional tools to make
blockchain available to every person or organisation that can benefit from it.

Komodo

40
40

The Komodo Platform focuses on providing
complete end-to-end blockchain solutions
for developers of any level and any industry.
It is simple yet powerful, offering customized
blockchain solutions that are easy to deploy,
and configurable to meet your needs. Their
vision is to build a robust ecosystem of partners and developers, creating an environment that accelerates anyone’s journey into
blockchain technology.

Strategic and
Legal Partners
Wolf Theiss
Wolf Theiss is a firm that helps clients to
grow in a rapidly changing world. Collaborating across industry groups and practice
areas, they approach the challenges of new
technologies from all sides by following a
stringent innovation focus. They help clients
to change their environment, their products, and their organization and support
them in coping with the changes they face.

Bitcoin Austria
…promotes and supports the distribution of
Bitcoin in Austria. Their network of experts is
the contact point for technical, legal and organisational questions concerning Bitcoin.

Fintech Austria
Their mission is to foster the development
of the Fintech sector in Austria and CEE, be
an active contributor to the eco-system and
facilitate communication and cooperation
within the community as well as external
participants.

41
41

Dr. Pius Sprenger
…is a former Managing Director at Deutsche
Bank, New York and a great mathematician.

Lennard Zwart
Structured products specialist for Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank in London for
7 years. This was followed by a 9 year non
financial intermezzo founding, growing and
subsequently selling a cloud computing firm
in the Netherlands (CloudVPS). Currently
co-managing an Amsterdam based hedge
fund (Res Privata NV), Lennard is also involved in several venture capital projects.

42
42

Universities and
Scientific Partners
TU Wien
TU Wien is Austria’s largest scientific-technical research and educational institution,
and among the most successful technical
universities throughout Europe. It enjoys
high international and domestic recognition
in teaching as well as research. It covers a
broad spectrum of scientific concepts, from
pure abstract research and the fundamental principles of science to applied technological research and partnership with industry.

exploration space @ ÖAW
…is a working group within the Austrian Academy of Sciences, is an open space for innovation and experimentation for the networked humanities, aiming to discover ways to
stimulate, design, enable and scientifically
analyse new forms of knowledge production
at the interface of science, technology and
society.

RIAT Institute for Future Cryptoeconomics

43
43

RIAT is an institute for research, development, communication and education in the
fields of crypto-economics and the blockchain. RIAT is the first address for all Ethereum related topics.

www.pantos.io
contact@pantos.io
Pantos Facebook: www.facebook.com/pantosio/
Pantos Twitter https: www.twitter.com/pantosio
Pantos Reddit: https: www.reddit.com/r/Pantos/
Pantos LinkedIn: https: www.linkedin.com/company/pantos_io/
Pantos Medium: www.medium.com/@pantosio
Pantos Telegram: https://t.me/PantosIO

www.bitpanda.com
support@bitpanda.com
Bitpanda Facebook: www.facebook.com/BITPANDA
Bitpanda Twitter: www.twitter.com/bitpanda
Bitpanda Reddit: www.reddit.com/r/Coinimal/
Bitpanda LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/bitpanda/
Bitpanda Medium: www.blog.bitpanda.com/
Bitpanda Bitcointalk: www.bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=878727

brought to you by the team at Bitpanda.com
with ♥ from Vienna

Version 1.5

