Photon:
In-Game Cryptocurrency
- It Pays to Play​ -

​ ​Authors: Moreme, Matt London
Contributors: BlueDragon747, xxACxx
​www.Photoncc.com

1

Abstract

Photon(PHO) is an open source, multi-platform cryptocurrency, created and
released in 2014 by Cinnamon Carter and BlueDragon747.
It is a well-established coin operating on a stable network.
It can be “Merge Mined” with the multi-crypto BlakeStream “6-coin family”
consisting of: Photon, Blakecoin, BlakeBitcoin, Electron, Universal Molecule and
Lithium.
This group of coins utilizes blockchain technology to enhance user experience in
the video gaming industry, including but not limited to: storage, security and
transfer of funds between game titles and platforms for developers, publishers and
gamers.
Photon integrates with, enhances, and bridges the important gap between gaming
and the new, untapped, underutilized world of cryptocurrency. The facilitation of
micro-payments using cryptocurrency within the game and across the entire
platform is Photon’s primary use case​.

Decentralized, Open Source, Crypto
Currency since 2014

2

Table of Contents

Abstract

2

Introduction

4

Photon’s Niche

6

Digital Renderings

7

Industry and Market Overview
General Overview
Games: Market by sector
MMO Gaming
Battle Royale
Mobile Gaming
eSports
The development of "eSports" As Olympic sport
TOP 5 TOURNAMENT PAYOUTS:
Overall largest prize pools

8
8
9
10
11
12
12
13
14
14

Mining
Pooled and Merged Mining
Specifications

15
15
16

Technical Information
Advantages and Design
Performance
Security
Why Photon beats others coins in the long run

16
16
16
16
16

Summary

17

Project Team

18

3

Introduction
The video gaming industry is a booming multi-billion dollar market that is projected to grow by
+8.2% to reach revenues of $143.5 billion in ​2020​.
This industry is also just beginning to recognize digital currency as a major opportunity.
Coinciding with this ongoing growth in gaming, is the explosive emergence and visibility of digital
currency in 2018. Although the adoption is still in its infancy, there is sufficient early adopter
awareness to move forward with the integration of cryptocurrency with in-game purchases.
Photon is positioned to serve as a pivotal in-game payment option to maximize the convergence
of these influential technologies.
Photon, created and released in 2014 by Cinnamon Carter and BlueDragon747, is a
well-established coin operating on a stable network and is, by no means, a new invention.
The intended use cases of the coin Photon are many, and can be expanded upon, but the future
vision for the coin is best summarized as an in-game currency and can specifically be broken into
the points below :
1) Its use as a micro-payments currency within the BlakeStream, along with the other 5
BlakeStream coins.
2) ​Its use as a native in-game currency in the upcoming Battlegrip, Ledgend of Blake RPG, and
Blakezone​ . A massive-multiplayer gaming platform-created by the PHO developers
3) ​Its use as an added mod in multiple online video games as an in-game currency where
permissible and legal.
4)​ Its use as an in-game currency in industry wide mobile gaming.
5)​ Its use as a digital content purchasing method for the Free to Play(F2P) type of games.
With the crypto market ​soaring and attracting millions of new investors, and users, the concept
of using cryptocurrency in games is now gaining momentum. The team behind Photon has spent
four years developing this technology to harness this momentum and place it at the forefront of
the gaming industry.
The advantage that Photon has above all of the coins, (and the many, no-value tokens currently
trying to enter the video game space), is that its developers are also avid game developers. They
produce games which are specifically created to incorporate Photon and the rest of the
BlakeStream coins.

4

Photon is an excellent coin used for both​: ​digital content purchasing, and as a general in-game
currency, making it the perfect coin for F2P type of games that are right now capturing a growing
segment of the market.
It's only going to keep growing as quality smartphones become more accessible, and more
consumers look to their smartphones for gaming. In the US alone, 180.4 million consumers
played games on their mobile phones in 2016, representing 56% of the population and a
whopping 70% of all mobile phone users, according to estimates from eMarketer
(​http://www.businessinsider.com​). The use in mobile gaming for Photon, will start to happen
with the integration and development of our native games through platforms like ​itch.io​. and
The Blakezone main portal.
Itch.io is an open marketplace for digital creators with a focus on independent video games. It’s
a platform that enables anyone to sell the content they've created and to be in charge of how it’s
done. Developers set the price, run sales, design their pages and interact with fans
directly-building communities centered around their creations.
Overall, itch.io Is great space for indie game developers to grow their fan/user base. Blakezone
is on the cutting edge of all available technology and marketing models. Photon’s integration
within the Blakezone games will have the best avenues, and technology available, to reach this
massive global marketplace.
Photon will be used for Blakezone games and as mods for several top AAA online video games.
Throughout the years, the developers have made steady progress towards the goals outlined
above, developing a merge-mined Blake Stream family of coins and integrating all of these
together in the same video game environment. That development and integration was well
ahead of its time as a concept established in 2014, but it’s being delivered right now to the
market that is ready for this revolutionary concept.
The merge mining with the other Blakecoins is still to this day a rare occurrence within the crypto
scene. The use of the cryptocurrency in video games combined with mining while playing has
been possible since it was released in 2014. These concepts are cutting edge and yet, until now,
not fully utilized within the gaming Industry. This potential is a goldmine for current and future
investors and game designers.

Optimized for In-Game transactions

5

Photon’s Niche
From a practical application use and case standpoint, the developers have included Photon as
an in-game currency and reward for a series of video games. This includes the much-anticipated
BlakeZone games and have also been integrated with many top AAA online video games.
The integration of Photon both in and out of gaming is more than promising for the future,
especially given the ever-expanding multi-billion dollar video game market. With this in mind,
whilst taking into consideration the independent nature of the development of this suite of
games, there is potential to reach a wide audience of gamers in the future. The development
and beta testing of games will continue throughout 2018.
Based on the Blake-256 algorithm and a child to its parent coin Blakecoin, Photon is a critical
member of the BlakeStream of coins. Its specifications allow for the transaction of volume
approximately 3.3x that of Bitcoin while maintaining the similar type of security as shared by
Bitcoin. Together with an ease of mining, Photon(PHO) has been regarded as and has the
reputation of a miner’s coin, because it can be merge mined with five other coins. This means
all six coins can be mined simultaneously. Considering Photon had no ICO or pre-mine, this
makes Photon very inviting from a mining standpoint and makes it stand out from the crowd
within the cryptocurrency field.
Although it is a child of Blakecoin, Photon is not fixed and can still be mined individually, giving
it the flexibility of POW and AuxPOW mining. Photon’s independence is a significant
differentiator from sidechain-derived coins. Sidechains have inherent dependence on their
respective parent chains to function properly. Photon is independent combined with being fast
and flexible in its security. This gives Photon an edge as a perfect candidate for inter and
intra-chain atomic swaps that can be developed for it in the near future.
The use of cryptocurrency as in-game currency is a concept that is gaining noteworthy
momentum currently as outlined above. There have been high-profile ICO’s in this space, which
is a definitive confirmation of the validity of this use case. What makes the potential greater for
Photon as an in-game currency is how it works in collaboration with other member coins from
the BlakeStream, specifically;
Photon - Blakecoin - BlakeBitcoin - Electron - Universal Molecule - Lithium
For detailed information on these merge-mined coins and how they interact with each other
and Photon, please visit ​Blake coin mining

6

Digital Renderings
Gold, Silver, Bronze, Copper, Keys or Gems
For those familiar with video games, it is not uncommon for there to be several different stores
of value active within a gaming environment. For example, there might be digital renderings of
gold, silver, bronze, copper, keys or gems, all of which have different purposes and values.
The BlakeStream family of coin serves a similar purpose​. More specifically, Photon has been
designed to be the go-to in-game currency to purchase of the ammunition, which is critical to
any FPS.

7

Industry and Market Overview

General Overview
A​ccording to Ubisoft report
from 2017, the largest
growing entertainment
segment is the video game
industry. It is expected to
grow at a rate of 50%
between 2017 and 2021,
that is from 114 billion USD
to 170 billion USD
respectively.

Source: Ubisoft 2017 report

A​s reported by Newzoo, video
game revenue is expected to have a
compound annual growth rate of
6.2% through the year 2020.
Although revenue share is
projected to continue its shift
towards smartphone based games
during this timeframe, global
growth remains robust with key
growth in the APAC region in
particular.

Source: ​Business insider

8

T​he capture of market share by
smartphone based games can, in part, be
attributed to the widely adopted and
highly successful free-to-play (F2P)
model with in-game purchase option.
This has fueled speculation that
platforms losing market share to
smartphones, such as consoles, may well
integrate in-game purchases to capitalize
on this trend. Regardless of the
dominant platform, it is evident the
in-game purchase model is attracting
consumers in ever increasing numbers.

Source: Newzoo

Games: Market by sector
PC and Massively Multiplayer
Games ​(MMO)
T​he real story in the PC segment of
traditional gaming continues to be
the consistent growth of the massive
online/microtransaction market,
which is expected to grow at 6.8%
CAGR and reach US$27.4bn by 2021.
This business model benefits from
having true global appeal compared
to digital game stores, and it
embraces all PC owners rather than
just the small segment with powerful
gaming PCs and higher spending
power.

9

PC games, also known as computer games or personal computer games, are ​video games
played on a ​personal computer rather than a dedicated ​video game console​. Their defining
characteristics include more diverse and user determined gaming hardware and software, and a
generally greater capacity in input, processing, and video output. PC games are sold
predominantly through the Internet, with buyers downloading their new purchase directly to
their ​computer​.
This approach allows smaller independent developers to compete with large publisher-backed
games and avoids the speed and capacity limits of the ​optical discs which most other gaming
platforms rely on.

MMO Gaming
A massively multiplayer online game
(​MMOG​, or more commonly, ​MMO​) is
an ​online game with large numbers of
players,( typically from hundreds to
thousands), on the same server. MMOs
usually feature a huge, ​persistent ​open
world​, although some games differ.
These games can be found for most
network-capable platforms, including
the ​personal computer​, ​video game
console​, or ​smartphones and other
mobile devices.

​Source:​Superdata

MMOs can enable players to cooperate and compete with each other on a large scale, and
sometimes to interact meaningfully with people around the world. They include a variety of
gameplay types, representing many ​video game genres​.
The next few years will see even more impressive growth for the game industry, according to
new research from industry analysts. The industry as a whole is expected to reach a value of
over $230 billion by 2022, and PC gaming is expected to be one of the biggest drivers of that
growth - though mostly via hardware and online game services rather than traditional sales.

10

Photon’s original use case was to be used in BlakeZone MMO games that are being developed
right now. The development will continue through 2018 with BlakeZone game release expected
mid summer with Photon being natively integrated from the start.

Battle Royale
One of the largest and fastest growing gaming sectors is Battle Royale gaming.
A battle royale game is a ​video game genre that blends the survival, exploration and scavenging
elements of a ​survival game​ with ​last man standing​ gameplay.
Battle royale games challenge a large number of players, starting with minimal equipment, to
search for weapons and armor and eliminate other opponents all while avoiding being trapped
outside of a shrinking "safe area", with the winner being the last competitor in the game.

The name for the genre is taken from
the 2000 Japanese film ​Battle Royale
Large scale battle royale games have
seen record breaking numbers in the
past few years. In fact, ​Valve’s MOBA
DotA 2 had the highest number of
concurrent players with​ over 3 million
in December 2017. This sector has
unlimited potential for growth and
integration-and that’s exactly where
Photon comes into play when used as
in-game and intra game currency: as
per kill payment, purchase of skins (
customized in-game items), and
purchase of weapons and ammunition.
Source: ​Esports Observer

11

Mobile Gaming
Mobile gaming will generate $46.1 billion this year, or 42% of all global game revenues. More
than three-quarters of this, or $35.3 billion, will come from smartphone gaming, with tablet
games accounting for the remaining $10.8 billion. Tablet unit sales have plummeted over the
years, but with 280 million tablets used actively, the segment contributes significantly to the
success of mobile games.
As mentioned above, Photon will be integrated into mobile games through the use of itch.io and Blakezone
gaming/development platforms.
The console gaming segment performed better than expected in 2016 thanks to console
manufacturers, publishers, and consumers embracing of a variety of digital business models.
Microsoft and Sony generated more than $14 billion in combined revenues from first-party
games, third-party game fees, and subscription revenues. In 2017, we expect console gaming to
generate a total of $33.5 billion in revenues worldwide, of which 65.8% digital.

eSports
eSports are the “sport” of the
new millennials. eSports
represent a multi billion dollar
industry-From multiplayer online
games to high payout professional
tournaments--eSports are big
business, and the scope of
eSports is not limited to active
participation. Live viewing is one
of the most rapidly growing
sectors.

​Source ​Newzoo

12

First person shooter game Counter Strike: Global Offensive is one of the most popular eSports.
Its Major Championships are a chance for fans to see which team can claim to be the best in the
world. It stands on a par with the League of Legends World Championships and the DOTA 2
International as one of the most prestigious annual eSports events .​"It's like a World Cup for
Counter Strike fans, they come round once or twice a year and you can never expect what's
going to happen”. CS:GO is one of the first games that Photon got integrated with and it did
extremely well.

The development of "eSports" As Olympic sport
The Olympic Summit discussed the rapid development of what are called "eSports", and the
current involvement of various Olympic Movement stakeholders. The Summit agreed that:
●

"eSports" are showing strong growth, especially within the youth demographic across
different countries, and can provide a platform for engagement with the Olympic
Movement.

●

Competitive "eSports" could be considered as a sporting activity, and the players
involved prepare and train with an intensity which may be comparable to athletes in
traditional sports.

●

In order to be recognised by the IOC as a sport, the content of "eSports" must not
infringe on the Olympic values. The Summit asked the IOC together with GAISF in a
dialogue with the gaming industry and players to explore this area further and to come
back to the Olympic Movement stakeholders in due course.

13

Esports players have seen some
outrageous payouts in the last five
years alone. While the overall size
of a prize pool doesn't determine
the prestige of an event, it is—for
obvious reasons—one of the major
things players use to determine
whether they'll show up.

TOP 5 TOURNAMENT PAYOUTS:
1)​ The International 7 - $24.6 million
2)​ The 2016 ​League of Legends ​World Championship - $5
million
3)​ The ​Dota 2 ​Asia Championship - $3 million

4)​ The ​Dota 2 ​Valve Majors - $3 million

5)​ The 2015 ​Smite ​World Championship - $2.6 million
Overall largest prize pools
1)​ The International 7 - $24.6 million
2)​ The International 6 - $20.4 million
3) ​The International 5 - $18.4 million
4) ​The International 4 - $10.9 million

5) ​2016 ​League of Legends ​World Championship - $5 million

6) ​2017 ​League of Legends ​World Championship - $4.9
million
7) ​2015 ​Dota 2 ​Asia Championship - $3 million
8)​ The ​Dota 2 ​Majors - $3 million

9)​ The International 3 - $2.8 million
10) ​2016 ​Smite ​World Championship - $2.6 million

14

Mining
Pooled and Merged Mining
Mining Photon in AuxPow:
MergeMining Photon along with the other Blakestream coins in AuxPow has many advantages
over traditional PoW mining. As the hash rate is not divided between the coins but applied fully
across all chains with virtually no impact on the hash rate of the other Pow/AuxPoW coins. The
blake256r8 algorithm is small, fast & power efficient. Making it suitable for running alongside
other applications (i.e: gaming) with little to no noticeable performance issues.
The BlakeStream PoW/AuxPow is not limited to just six coins; there is room in the mergemine to
support many more blockchains thus creating secure blockchains & an energy efficient mining
community, All Blakestream coins can be mergemined using CPU, GPU, FPGA or ASIC.
Mining the Blakestream PoW/AuXPoW requires nothing extra from the miner but yields great
rewards.
Current block reward for the BlakeStream

Since all solved blocks may or may not be accepted by the individual blockchains also as hash
rate and difficulty fluctuate there is no easy way to calculate mining rewards other than just
mining on the pools for set period of time.
Pooled mining is where many miners contribute to the generation of a block, and then split the
block reward according to the percentage of shares submitted. Pooled mining reduces the
variance of mining reward for the miner.
Merged mining allows a miner to mine more than one blockchain at the same time. The benefit
is that every share the miner submits goes towards the total hash rate of all blockchains in the
merge and as a result they are all more secure.
Auxiliary Proof-of-Work a.k.a "AuxPOW", is the way that merged mining can exist; it is the
relationship between two blockchains for one to trust the other's work as their own and accept
AuxPOW blocks. As such, Photon and the other Blake coins will never be Proof of Stake (POS).
15

Specifications ​
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

Coin Type: PoW/AuXPoW
Algorithm: Blake256r8
Block Reward: 32768 + inflation
(Square root of (difficulty * block height))
No reduction of block reward
Cap in pace to reduce difficulty jumps upward
Block Target Time: 3 minutes
Retarget: 20 blocks
Total Coins: 90,000,000,000
Block Maturity: 120

Technical Information
Photon was created with the fast and light Blake-256 algorithm. Blake-256 (optimized) is faster
than Scrypt, SHA-256D and Keccak. The algorithm was written as a candidate for SHA-3 and has
a reduced round function to 8 rounds, aka Blake256r8.

Advantages and Design
●
Simplicity of the algorithm
●
Interface for hashing with a salt
●
Can be merge mined with Blake ecosystem coins
Performance
●
Fast both software and hardware
●
Parallelism and throughput are trade-off for hardware implementation
●
Simple speed/confidence trade-off with the tunable number of rounds
Security
●
Based on an intensively analyzed component (ChaCha)
●
Resistant to generic second-preimage attacks
●
Resistant to side-channel attacks
●
Resistant to length-extension

16

Why Photon beats others coins in the long run:
●
The Blake256r8 algorithm is fast and energy efficient vs other algorithms
●
The reward for mining Photon does not decrease over time
●
The transaction throughput vs Bitcoin is roughly 3.3x
●
There are no restrictions on any platform as Photon does not include artificial “security”
or “resistance” that reduce mining hash rate and power efficiency

For complete details, specifications and links for:

●
●
●

Wallets- https://blakecoin.org/software/
Mining pools- https://blakecoin.org/merged-mining/
Exchanges and Blakecoin/Photon project- https://blakecoin.org/about-blakecoin/

Summary
Photon is the ultimate "micropayment" currency game coin. It is designed to work seamlessly
across the BlakeZone web portal. Photon works in tandem with the remaining family of Blake
coins. Note, there is zero competition amidst any coins kin to the Blake group. Photon coin
must also be acknowledged for its distinct use cases. The coin is being traded, exchanged, and
distributed in prevailing games such as Fortnite, CSGO, and TF2. The multi-use, multi-coin
advantage puts Photon, and thus the entire BlakeStream, at the head of this roaring
contemporary race, that is, the race to win the hearts and minds of gamers who are
enthusiastic about cryptocurrency and express major passion towards the entertainment
/gaming industry.

Decentralizing gaming payments
since 2014

17

Project Team
Much like Satoshi Nakamoto has maintained his anonymity, developers Cinnamon_Carter and
BlueDragon747, although deeply dedicated to supporting Photon and the other BlakeCoins,
have chosen to maintain their anonymity and privacy, as well. So much so, in the wake of the
wave of suspicious actors now permeating crypto, they have defended their right to avoid the
spotlight and focus on what they enjoy most: developing wonderful technologies and releasing
them to the world​.

18

This white paper is not an invitation nor recommendation to enter into an investment. This white paper does
not represent or constitute a contract, offer or guarantee of employment. Any information provided in this
white paper is for general informational purposes only. Furthermore, there is no warranty as to the accuracy or
completeness of this information, which may be modified at any time without notice.
The acquisition, utilization and storage of Photon coins involves various risks, such as but not limited to the
non-implementation of Photon as an in-game crypto currency, exchange availability and hacker attack related
losses. It is incumbent upon any user of Photon to examine the risks, costs and benefits of Photon prior to
usage. Potential users should consult with an independent legal and/or financial advisor to ensure a clear
understanding of these risks.
Due to potential regulatory scrutiny and compliance requirements, the future of Photon and other crypto
currencies is currently unknown. Photon users acknowledge new regulations may negatively impact Photon and
cause direct or indirect losses and damages. Photon users also acknowledge that Photon’s developers and
affiliates shall not be held liable should such circumstances occur.

References
* ​https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Pooled_mining
* ​https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/273/how-does-merged-mining-work
* ​https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Merged_mining_specification
* ​https://newzoo.com
* ​https://www.superdataresearch.com
* ​https://131002.net/blake/blake.pdf
* ​https://eslgaming.com
* ​https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Massively_multiplayer_online_game
* ​https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PC_game

​Twitter​

​Telegram

19

