Fueling the
Gaming Industry
PlayFuel provides a platform for gamers
and developers to earn through playing,
developing and selling in-game items.

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

WHITEPAPER
VERSION 1.0
1. Introduction
2. The Market
2.1 Overview
2.2 Market Opportunities
3. Market Needs
3.1 For Players
3.2 For Developers
3.3 For Influencers
3.4 For Merchants
4. Key Features
4.1 Game Marketplace
4.2 In-Game Item Market
4.3 Referral System
4.4 Business Opportunities
5. Mainnet
5.1 Token
5.2 Transaction Model
5.3 Proof-of-Play Protocol
5.3.1 Fuel-Block
5.3.2 Time Conditions
5.3.3 Difficulty Conditions
5.3.4 Offer Wall Conditions
5.3.5 Proof-of-Play Definition
5.3.6 Proof-of-Play Flow
5.4 PLF Liquidity Reserve
6. Platform Launch
6.1 Road Map
7. Crowdfunding Structure
7.1 Terms and Conditions
7.2 Use of Funds
8. Legal Disclaimer

1

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

1. Introduction
PlayFuel brings the power of blockchain technology to the gaming world. We are doing this
by creating a platform that allows developers to earn funding by integrating PlayFuel into
their games and allowing players to mine PLF — crypto-tokens just by playing. Players can
use these tokens to buy games, redeem exclusive goodies or even exchange the tokens into
real money.
Developers can gain funding through gamers who purchase PLF and invest in the
development of their games. Investors get access to beta testing, exclusive in-game items,
and will be one of the first users to be given access to the actual game.
Players acquire premium and exclusive perks using PlayFuel tokens. Items, upgrades, and
other in-game purchases can be bought without hassle.
Once the game is ready, players can indulge their experience more by earning PLF tokens as
they level up in the game. The longer you play, the greater incentives you can get.
PlayFuel is a gaming and development platform that lets players buy games and in-game
items with PLF Tokens.
PLF is a utility token based on the ERC-20 standard, enabling PlayFuel to fully leverage
the Ethereum ecosystem and easily integrate with the existing infrastructure. PLF will be
available to use on PlayFuel platform from day 1 when the tokens are forged.
The maximum supply of PLF Tokens (“PLF Total Supply”) will be issued in a single genesis
block and limited at 10,000,000,000 PLF.

2

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

2. The Market
2.1 Overview
According to research published by The Global Games Market, the games market took more than
35 years to grow to a $35 billion business in 2007. In the current year, that market is expected
to make $137.9 billion in revenues. With just 11 years, an astounding $100 billion of additional
values was created.

Segment Breakdown of
Global Games Revenues
Toward 2021

The Global Games Market
Per segment
Browser PC Games

$4.3Bn

Console

-13.9% YoY

Tablet

Console Games

Downloaded/Boxed
PC Games

3%

$34.6Bn

25%

-4.1% YoY

21%

$28.6Bn

(Smart) Phone

Browser PC

-4.5% YoY

$13.9Bn
+13.1% YoY

10%
41%

Smart Phone
Games

$56.4Bn
-13.9% YoY

20%

21%

23%

3%

4%

25%

27%

$165.9Bn
$151.9Bn

$137.9Bn
$121.7Bn

Tablet Games

$180.1Bn

Downloaded/Boxed PC

10%

24%
10%

22%
10%

10%
36%

2017

18%

19%
22%
10%

47%
41%

2018

44%

2019

47%

2020

2021

Source: Newzoo Global Games Market Report

Mobile gaming is the largest segment in 2018, claiming more than half of all global game
revenues for the first time. Combined, smartphone and tablet gaming generate $70.3 billion,
accounting for 51% of the total global market. The segment also has the most players with 2.2
billion, the majority of whom are gaming on smartphones.
The gaming industry is in a healthy state as both console and PC games are also growing.
Console is the second-largest segment with revenues of $34.6 billion in 2018. This will grow to
$39.0 billion in 2021 with a CAGR (2017-2021) of +4.1%. The overall PC segment will generate
$32.9 billion in 2018 and is the third-largest segment. Growth in downloaded/boxed PC games is
offset by declining browser PC revenues, as browser gamers have largely transitioned to mobile.
Browser PC revenues will continue to decline with a CAGR (2017-2021) of -16.1% to $2.5 billion
in 2021.

3

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

The Global Games Market
Per Region
Europe
Middle East & Africa

$28.7Bn
+8.8% YoY

Asia Pacific

21%

+16.8% YoY

Latin America

2018 TOTAL

$137.9Bn

$5.0Bn
+13.5% YoY

$71.4Bn

4%

+13.3%
YoY

52%

23 %
North America

$32.7Bn
+10.0% YoY

The Asia-Pacific region will generate $71.4 billion this year, or 52% of total global game revenues.
This represents a +16.8% year-on-year increase. The share of total revenues claimed by the AsiaPacific region has increased slightly over the past years due to continued growth in smartphone
gaming, for which the region has, by far, the largest player base.
North America remains the second-largest region, taking 23% of the global games market. Total
revenues in North America will increase year on year by +10.0% to reach $32.7 billion.
Growth in EMEA’s diverse markets is lagging slightly behind North America, as the uptake of
mobile gaming has been slower.
As a result, EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) region represents 21% of the market,
equal to $28.7 billion. Latin America will grow to $5.0 billion in game revenues this year, taking
4% of the market.
Growth in the coming years will cement AsiaPacific as the largest region by game revenues, as
the fastest-growing markets in the coming three years will be India and various countries in
Southeast Asia.
The largest single market will continue to be China, which will reach $50.7 billion in 2021.

4

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

Top 20 Countries/Markets
by Game Revenues in 2018
RANK

COUNTRY/MARKET

POPULATION

ONLINE POPULATION

TOTAL REVENUES

1

China

1,425M

850M

$37,945M

2

United states

327M

265M

$30,411M

3

Japan

127M

121M

$19,231M

4

South Korea

51M

48M

$5,647M

5

Germany

82M

76M

$4,687M

6

United Kingdom

67M

64M

$4,453M

7

France

65M

58M

$3,131M

8

Canada

37M

34M

$2,303M

9

Spain

46M

39M

$2,032M

10

Italy

59M

40M

$2,017M

11

Russia

144M

113M

$1,668M

12

Mexico

131M

86M

$1,606M

13

Brazil

211M

142M

$1,484M

14

Australia

25M

23M

$1,269M

15

Taiwan, China

24M

20M

$1,268M

16

India

1,354M

481M

$1,169M

17

Indonesia

267M

82M

$1,130M

18

Turkey

82M

53M

$878M

19

Saudi Arabia

34M

26M

$761M

20

Thailand

69M

38M

$692M

Source: Newzoo Global Games Market Report
As shown on the data above, the online gaming industry has risen significantly. The PlayFuel Team sees this
as an opportunity to target the growing global gaming market. PlayFuel has the goal of connecting blockchain
with the gaming industry.

2.2 Market Opportunities
Due to the extensive research done by the PlayFuel team, we discovered the market
opportunities that follow. PlayFuel will solve the following issues in the gaming community:

5

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

PLAYERS

DEVELOPERS

INFLUENCERS

MERCHANTS

Lack of earning
opportunities as a
gamer

Initial budget
acquisition

Decreasing revenues
from traditional
platforms like YouTube

Audience targeting

Intrusive advertising

User retention

Increasingly hard to
keep follower base
engaged

Marketing costs are
too high

Rewards can’t be used
across different games

Low advertising and
in-app purchase
revenue

Decreasing
effectiveness of
traditional social media

Undeveloped
ecosystem for
advertising

Cost of digital goods

No innovative
revenue channels

Need for more
revenue channels

Lack of in-game
advertising
opportunities

3. Market Needs
3.1 For Players
One of PlayFuel’s core missions is to provide players with an unparalleled user experience where
they can play their favorite games while seamlessly ”mining” PLF Tokens. In addition, PlayFuel
engages players in entirely new ways, such as by rewarding players with item drops that can be
sold for PLF Tokens in the in-game item market. Then can also exchange the PLF Tokens for real
money at the exchanges where PLF Tokens will be listed.

PLAYER NEEDS

PLAYFUEL SOLUTIONS

Lack of earning
opportunities as a
gamer

Many earning opportunities such as
mining through playing, selling
in-game items, and streaming

Intrusive advertising

Advertising will be limited, players
can spend PLF Tokens to block
advertisements, or earn PLF by
watching advertisements

Rewards can’t be used
across different games

Cost of digital goods

6

With PLF Tokens as rewards, this
type of reward can be used
everywhere in PlayFuel
With PLF Tokens, buyers in the
early stage can purchase
exclusive in-game items

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

3.2 For Developers
Developers can enjoy plenty of benefits by using PlayFuel. They can easily get funding to work on
developing their projects through investors in the Initial Game Offering. They will be working with
investors through beta testing and providing perks and rare sellable items to investors.

DEVELOPER NEEDS

PLAYFUEL SOLUTIONS

Initial budget acquisition

Will provide Initial Game Offering option for
crowdfunding the development costs

User retention

Enables players to profit making
gaming a potential source of income

Low advertising and in-app
purchase revenue

Partnerships with merchants and
in-app item marketplace opportunities
will be developed

No innovative revenue channels

Scalable revenue channels

3.3 For Influencers
PlayFuel allows Influencers to monetize their followers through a referral system which
generates an ongoing revenue stream for every lead, regardless of whether the lead
remains an Influencer’s follower in the long-term.

INFLUENCER NEEDS
Decreasing revenues from
traditional platforms like YouTube

7

PLAYFUEL SOLUTIONS
Unlimited potential regarding
revenue streams

Increasingly hard to keep
follower base engaged

Rewards encourages and enables
participants to engage more

Decreasing effectiveness of
traditional social media

Innovative medium for
gamer influencers

Need for more revenue channels

Many ways to earn PLF tokens

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

3.4 For Merchants
PlayFuel provides an easy and cost effective way for merchants to promote their products online
through the In-Game Market and Game Marketplace.

MERCHANT NEEDS

PLAYFUEL SOLUTIONS

Audience targeting

Merchants who want to advertise
will be able to target gamers easily,
also ads will be relevant to gamers

Marketing costs are too high

There will be more efficient
marketing channels

Undeveloped ecosystem
for advertising

Advertising ecosystem
will be developed

Lack of in-game advertising
opportunities

In-game advertising opportunities
when partnering with developers

4. Key Features
4.1 Game Marketplace
PlayFuel offers a faster, scalable, and secure platform
that will allow game developers to design, create, and
sell games of their preference. Developers have the
freedom to conceptualize the technicalities and gameplay
according to the demands of the gaming industry.
Through the PlayFuel platform, developers can collect
development funds through the PLF token pre sale. After
presenting the concepts and building a prototype version
of the game, developers can market it with the investors,
professional gamers, influencers, and merchants who are
part of the PlayFuel ecosystem. Those who are interested

8

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

in the game development can buy the PLF tokens which would serve as the capital fund for the
game of their choice. The fund capital acquired by game developers during this stage will be used
to fully develop the game, which is needed for the release of the full-version of the game before
it hits the public market.
The people who have invested during the pre sale have advantages once the developers has
released the full version of the games. They can have exclusive access to in-game purchases for
a certain period of time, compared to other buyers who have bought the game during its Initial
Game Offering (IGO). All special in-game purchases could be paid using PlayFuel tokens.
Upon successful completion of the game development, the PlayFuel platform will open the IGO
stage to the public. This is when everyone can purchase the game and enjoy exclusive in-game
items with PlayFuel tokens.

4.2 In-Game Item Market
Game developers will work alongside
PLF to introduce assets which are only
available for purchase using its in-game
crypto tokens. This safeguards the way
in-game transactions are made and
creates digital items players can actually
own. Through the Ethereum blockchain,
PLF token give players and developers
a new platform through which they can
distribute, trade and buy virtual items.
Games may differ on how the player
uses an item which proves the necessity
of having a platform that could benefit the gamers by acquisition of in-game items. Through
PLF, users can take advantage of getting previews of upcoming in-game items, access to the
hottest and most exclusive gears, and other latest in-game purchases available in all the games
developed within the PLF ecosystem. Game developers would include unlockable and rare ingame items such as virtual goods, skins or upgrades which could be traded and sold only using
PLF tokens.
Players can buy and sell items with no risk of fraud. The PlayFuel platform is equipped with
advanced fraud protection and blockchain security which ensures all item transactions are valid.
Trading of in-game items from different games developed within the PLF platform can also be
done. Players who want to convert their customized virtual goods to PLF tokens can do so by
selling those items for public takers. In-game items are available through different game servers
and games within the PlayFuel platform.
The people who have purchased a game developed within the PlayFuel ecosystem can earn
PlayFuel tokens while playing games. This allows players to easily buy in-game items for a more
exciting and awesome gaming experience.
9

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

4.3 Referral System
By definition, affiliate marketing is the
process of earning a commission by
promoting products of other people or
companies. When you find a product you
like, you will promote it to others and
earn a piece of the profit for each sale
that you make.
PlayFuel have taken into consideration
that the gaming industry has grown through the years by word-of-mouth promotion and referral
reward programs. According to Get Social, customers that come via referrals have higher chances
of being retained, amounting to almost 37%. Furthermore, experts also said that brands can
expect a minimum of 16% higher profits through referred users.
PlayFuel applies the concept of affiliate marketing through its referral system. Existing players
within the PLF platform can refer the game they are playing to their friends and colleagues to get
a referral bonus of up to 100 PLF tokens. Once the referred user has been actively playing for 30
days, the existing player can also get access to a locked in-game feature.
When users reach a certain number of referrals, they can start sharing and receiving PLF tokens
from their invites. PlayFuel might also conduct referral contests to win special prizes and perks
by simply sharing the game and asking their acquaintances to join and play. The winner will be
based on the person who successfully generates the highest number of referrals.

4.4 Business Opportunities
Gaming Ecosystem
The mission of PlayFuel is to develop a gaming ecosystem utilizing PLF token and its blockchain.
It will propagate the use, awareness and understanding of the benefits of tokenized game
development and gameplay and build a thriving community of gamers, investors, developers,
and enthusiasts.

In-game Purchases
With PLF, developers and game designers can tokenize in-game purchases. Developers will
allow players to buy and own various items and use it in any games created within the PlayFuel
platform. While PLF is unlikely to change gameplay itself, it will hugely impact the actual in-game
experience by providing a more convenient way for users to acquire in-game purchases, earn
additional profit, and build a network with gamers and investors within the community.

Mining and Marketplace
PlayFuel allows gamers to mine PLF tokens as they play. The longer the game duration and the
higher the level of difficulty within the chosen game, the faster the mining process would be. As
10

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

long as the players are actively using the game on a regular basis, they are eligible to mine PLF
tokens. PlayFuel’s marketplace is available to everyone in the community. Aside from the ingame purchases, customized items and item drops can also be sold to the public. IGO investors
get access to premium and rare items, as well as complimentary elite investor sets which they
can use or sell to a much higher price within the market.

IGO Investment
The game price during the IGO will be lower compared to the price during the full-version release.
The discounted offer during ICO is one of the benefits of investing PLF tokens beforehand.
Developers can get their payments in a maximum of 24 hours, which is faster than any other
platform in the market at present. There can neither be fraud payments using the payment
gateway nor chargebacks. Aside from the IGO fund, premium subscriptions also generate profit
for developers. They can issue games free of cost with a minimum revenue share of 5% against
30% in comparison to PlayFuel’s competitors. Furthermore, influencers can also profit on the
PlayFuel platform by being a player and accepting donations through Steam.

5. Mainnet
5.1 Token
PLF tokens will be integral to all of the processes within the PlayFuel ecosystem. PLF token is
based on the ERC-20 token standard, and is a utility token which serves a plethora of functions
and purposes within the ecosystem. These functions and purposes are mentioned within the
whitepaper. Eventually, PlayFuel will develop a mainnet.

5.2 Transaction Model
PlayFuel is a crypto gaming platform initially built on the Ethereum network, but it will migrate
to its own mainnet eventually. The mainnet gives PlayFuel the freedom to break free from the
limitations set by the Ethereum platform. It also provides independence for the platform to set
its own rules and restrictions.
All PLF tokens awarded to players are deposited to their internal wallet on PlayFuel. These
tokens are readily available for serving various purposes within the PlayFuel marketplace such as
the purchase of in-game items and gears, customized sets, and many more. Players are capable
of transferring PLF tokens from his in-game wallet to his personal crypto wallet so long as it is
ERC-20 compatible, and vice versa.
We will assist game developers by providing open-source plugins, application programming
interfaces (APIs), and software development kits (SDKs) to allow players to buy digital items via
PLF tokens.

5.3 Proof-of-Play Protocol
PlayFuel implements the Proof-of-Play protocol. This is a concept similar to Proof-of-Work, but
instead of awarding users new tokens based on computing power, this protocol will award based
11

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

on how much “play” the user has performed. The number of PLF tokens awarded to the player
depends on a variety of factors. Once these have been met, the player will mine a “Fuel-Block”.

5.3.1 Fuel-Block
As mentioned above, Fuel-Blocks are a certain set of conditions that, if successfully met,
generate a block reward. These blocks vary by level, and there are three types of conditions in a
Fuel-Block, namely Time Conditions, Difficulty Conditions. And Offer Wall Conditions. Each will be
discussed below.

5.3.2 Time Conditions
Time Conditions is, as the name suggests, what refers to the amount of time required for the
player to play the game before achieving the Proof of Play. This is expressed in seconds.

5.3.3 Difficulty Conditions
Some games are more difficult to play than others, and some quests are trickier than the others.
That is why PlayFuel has created Difficulty Conditions, which refers to the in-game accomplishments of players in contrast to the game level or quest difficulty. PlayFuel will collaborate with
the game developers in designating the game or quest level difficulty to make sure that this will
not be manipulated or exploited by the players.

5.3.4 Offer Wall Conditions
Offer Wall Conditions refers to the completion of actions and the acceptance of offers posted on
PlayFuel’s Offer Wall. Sample actions include the downloading of a PlayFuel app, referring users
to the ecosystem, purchasing of certain games, to mention a few.

5.3.5 Proof-of-Play Definition
The Fuel-Block definition will be:
FBi (Aiw)={1 iƒ Aiw = 1, ∀ w ∈ {T, O}, 0 otherwise} with i ∈ N
Where FBi assumes the value 1 if all actions, of all the conditions met in it, have been satisfied, 0
if otherwise. We can therefore define Proof of Play as:
P(FBi) = {y iƒ FBi = 1,0 otherwise} with i ∈ N, y ∈ R+
Where P corresponds to the PLF block reward tantamount to the value y of P, if the Proof of Play
of level i is satisfied.

5.3.6 Proof-of-Play Flow
If all of the conditions stipulated above are met by the player, PlayFuel will reward him/her with
PLF tokens on his in-game wallet, which can be available to use on the in-game marketplace and
more.

12

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

6. Platform Launch
6.1 Road Map

2019

Q2 - Forming the company
PlayFuel launches the website and whitepaper to introduce its platform to the online
gaming and blockchain community.
Q3 - Blockchain development
PlayFuel team creates PLF Tokens through the Ethereum platform. There will be a
total of 10 billion PLF tokens, with 3 billion pre-mined.
Q4 - PLF Token Exchange Listing
PlayFuel will list its native currency in various leading digital asset exchanges. PLF
will be made available for trading around the world.

2020

Q1 - Partner with game developers
Interested game developers can send their game proposals to PlayFuel. The proposal
must include a clear concept of the game and PLF token integration.
Q2 - Sneak peek of games
Developers provide a preview of the games that they are developing to the PlayFuel
community. Be excited about what’s more to come on your favorite game.
Q3 - Beta testing with investors
The PlayFuel team and PLF investors will beta test the blockchain-based games
created by the affiliated developers to check for possible bugs and errors.
Q4 - First game launch
PlayFuel officially launches the first wave of games on its platform. This will be open
to the public with game availability depending on certain conditions.

13

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

7. Crowdfunding Structure
PlayFuel has designed its ecosystem in a way that
there will be a maximum of 10 billion PLF tokens
in existence. There will be 3 billion pre-mined PLF
tokens which will be made available for purchase
during the token presale. The remaining 7 billion PLF
tokens can be acquired by members of the PlayFuel
community via a Proof-of-Play mechanism.

7.1 Terms and Conditions
Persons who would like to gain access to PLF
tokens can do so through 3 possible ways, with each
explained below.

Token Presale
PlayFuel will hold a token presale event, wherein it will be selling the first 3 billion tokens to the
public. These will be used for investors to fund upcoming games on the PlayFuel platform.
It is very important for readers and interested investors to join the presale because there will
not be any more way to own PLF tokens prior to the launch of the first games on the PlayFuel
platform except by purchasing the said tokens from users who bought the tokens during this
time.
PLF tokens can be purchased via wire transfer or through major cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and
Ethereum. Once the 3 billion tokens have been purchased, the token presale will be closed, and
additional tokens will not be created for purchase.

Initial Game Offering (IGO)
Developers whose game proposals have been approved by the PlayFuel team will be allowed to
conduct their own Initial Game Offering (IGO), wherein they will open their gaming projects for
the public to fund. These can be purchased through PLF tokens, which are native to the PlayFuel
platform.
Members of the PlayFuel community can choose whichever game they would like to fund
through IGO.
Participating in IGOs will prove beneficial to the users because some games will not be available
for everyone, and only those who have participated in that game’s IGO will have access to the
game. In this case, PLF tokens will function as a way to “purchase” a license to play the game.

14

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

Game Launch

Once the first wave of games have been launched on the PlayFuel platform, PLF tokens can
utilize their tokens to serve different purposes, including access to pay-to-play games, in-game
items, trophies, features, weapons and armor, to name a few.
Furthermore, users who will play the games on the PlayFuel tokens will have the opportunity to
receive newly-minted PLF tokens through the Proof-of-Play mechanism. The amount of tokens
earned and the difficulty will depend on several factors including game system requirements,
amount of time played, game difficulty, and more.

7.2 Use of Funds
Developers who hold successful IGOs will use utilize the PLF tokens to fund the development
of their games, as well as the operation expenses. They may not use the funds in any other way
aside from the functions stipulated within the PlayFuel whitepaper.
PlayFuel expects any PLF token holder to observe the same. PLF tokens are utility tokens native
to the PlayFuel ecosystem, and while these will be made available to trade with cryptocurrencies
and fiat money, we do not support nor associate ourselves with persons who will utilize our
PLF tokens, especially those tokens collected as funds in the IGOs, to be used for illicit activities
commonly associated with traditional initial coin offerings (ICOs).

8. Legal Disclaimer
General Information
1. PlayFuel is a platform that uses blockchain technology to deliver its services in line with its
vision and purpose. The reader must understand that blockchain technology is an open-source
protocol and is not an exclusive property of any single person or organization. The company also
uses smart contracts based on the Ethereum protocol.
2. PlayFuel focuses on providing a new marketplace and ecosystem for the gaming industry,
and there is a possibility that some of its features may be identical with others. This is purely
because other ecosystems are also empowered — and limited — by innovations like blockchain
technology, artificial intelligence (AI), virtual reality (VR), and other complementary technologies.
3. This whitepaper is used to introduce PlayFuel to the community and to highlight all of its
special features. It only serves the purpose of providing comprehensive information to the reader
regarding PlayFuel and nothing more.
4. Every piece of information provided in this whitepaper should be taken by the reader as is, and
it is not encouraged for the reader to interpret the information in any way other.

15

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

Risks
1. Blockchain and other similar technologies being used by PlayFuel, as cited and described in the
whitepaper, are not perfect, and readers are expected to understand that there will be limitations
and risks associated with PlayFuel’s ecosystem. Readers are expected to agree that should any
untoward event occur in the duration of the reader’s engagement with the platform, PlayFuel will
not be immediately and conveniently blamed; as security measures are being improved, so are
security threats.
2. Possessing PlayFuel tokens (PLF tokens) and storing them involves potential risks, including,
but not limited to the risk that the company may not be able to launch its platform as initially
scheduled, the company may not be able to develop its blockchain system as initially scheduled
due to many factors including legal, technical, technological, or financial. Therefore, interested
PLF purchasers are expected to buy the said tokens at their own risk.

Due Diligence
1. Readers are expected to practice Due Diligence in reading this whitepaper and in conducting
any business with PlayFuel, both its platform and its community.

Purchase
PLF Tokens
1. PlayFuel will have its native PLF token as a means to allow users access to various features
and functionality within its platform, as described in the earlier parts of this whitepaper. Other
cryptocurrencies will not have any other function except to be traded for PLF tokens and vice
versa.
2. PlayFuel will conduct its initial PLF token sale on the date said in official announcements on its
communication platforms — be it PlayFuel’s very own website, or its social media channels and
email messages.
3. All of the details provided in the official announcements shall be considered true by the
readers, and they are discouraged from holding contrary information in the same esteem as
PlayFuel’s official announcements. Users are also discouraged from disseminating any piece of
information which are not consistent with PlayFuel’s official announcements.

No Investment
1. PlayFuel does not and will not endorse its PLF tokens to the public as investment assets. PLF
tokens function as a utility token which will allow token purchasers to have access to various
features and functionalities within the PlayFuel ecosystem.
2. PlayFuel token (PLF) sale is final, and tokens are not refundable. These may however be
converted into cryptocurrencies in the near future. But as of the time of writing this whitepaper,
this function is not available yet.

16

PlayFuel Whitepaper Version 1.0 PLF

