Internet Broadband Marketplace
powered by VPN Network on Blockchain

WHITE PAPER

Abstract

This white paper presents the Privatix concept of a decentralized autonomous VPN network on
blockchain with its own crypto-economy which will serve as the first bandwidth exchange
marketplace. Based on the blockchain technology, the network will contain thousands or even
millions of exit nodes around the world and will provide an innovative new way for developers
to build products that will potentially disrupt several markets, like the consumer VPN industry,
cyber protection, CDN, business intelligence and even software and mobile apps monetization.

Contents
1. Introduction

3

1.1 Major problems facing the internet

3

1.2 The current centralized solution

4

1.3 New opportunities

4

1.4 Our mission and goals

5

2. Token PRIX

5

2.1 Specifications

5

2.2 The crypto-economy

6

2.3 Examples of use

8

3. Business model

9

3.1 Privatix Network

10

3.2 Proof of Concept (PoC) products

10

4. Long-term strategy

11

5. Technical specifications

12

5. 1 General

12

Concept

12

Decentralized applications

12

Privatix Core Engine

13

Service plug-in

13

5.2 Basic usage scenario

13

5.3 Consensus

14

5.4 Blockchain

15

Smart contracts

16

Offering registration

17

Offering removal

18

Offering pop-up

18

Service supply

18

State channels

19

Network fee

20

5.5 User rating

20

5.6 Service offering

20

Offering template

20

Core fields

21

Service custom fields

22

1

Service offering discovery

23

Service Offering Messaging Channel

23

Ping

24

Offering message

24

Endpoint message

24

Endpoint template

24

Core fields

25

Service custom fields

25

Service offering messaging channel

25

Privatix Core Engine

27

Components

27

Responsibilities

27

Client role

27

Agent role

28

Service plug-in

28

Agent

28

Client

29

5.6 Service controller functional scheme

30

5.7 Service controller protocol scheme

31

5.8 Glossary

32

6. Markets overview

35

6.1 Global VPN market

35

6.2 Cyber security and privacy protection

37

6.3 CDN

38

Market size and growth trends

38

6.4 Business intelligence and data collecting (Proxy / Socks gateways)

41

6.5 Mobile apps and software monetization

44

7. Products and services – Proof of Concept

47

7.1 Privatix.Agent - cross-platform software for exit nodes owners

47

7.2 Consumer VPN based on DPI-free VPN protocol

49

7.3 Privatix.BOX - portable VPN router

51

7.4 Advanced Proxy / Socks selling API platform

52

7.5 Infrastructure for VPN providers

53

7.6 Decentralized CDN on blockchain

53

7.7 Privatix.FAAS - anti-censorship solution for developers

54

7.8 Privatix.Monetize - mobile apps and software monetization platform

54

2

8. Legal disclaimers

55

8.1 RISK FACTORS

56

1. Introduction
Privatix Network is a team that was founded by a group of experienced IT entrepreneurs and
talented developers who are passionate about the freedom of the internet, online security, and the
rights of individuals and businesses to privacy protection.

Now we have created a concept of a decentralized, fully autonomous network on blockchain.
The Privatix Network is designed to have its own advanced crypto-economy and allow the users
to rent out their broadband. We believe it has the potential to end the current era of internet
censorship and totally change the current VPN market, among others (e.g. cyber security).

1.1

Major problems facing the internet

The incredible worldwide growth of internet users is astounding. In 2016 we had 3.4 billion
users, representing 46% of the world’s population. By 2020, it is predicted that we will see 5
billion users online.

But, as the number of users online grows, so does the level of internet censorship. In the future,
most new users will likely come from countries with increasingly strict internet censorship laws;
because these users often have poor internet mobile connections, they are the most vulnerable to
these sometimes draconian and arbitrary laws. It is these users who are seeking effective
solutions to internet restrictions.

Today, one of the major problems with the internet is the denial of the network neutrality
paradigm, that suggests an equal opportunity for everyone to access the world wide web.

3

This denial will lead to the collapse of the internet as we have known it over the last 25 years.
Users are not just being watched by overzealous governments and cybercriminals, their data is
collected by ISPs and their basic privacy rights are routinely violated. This is happening not just
in countries like China or Iran, but in Australia, Germany, and even the U.S.

The second problem is the cybersecurity issue. According to Cybersecurity Ventures report, we
have more than $3B in losses from cybersecurity incidents online in 2015 and it is expected to
grow to $6B in 2021. The complexity of technical solutions today means that robust encryption
algorithms aren’t always accessible to ordinary people to effectively protect their data and ensure
cybersecurity easily and affordably.

The third problem is speed. While the internet is global, network quality is not equal in all
countries. Content is getting heavier all the time, e.g. full HD videos, streaming movies, etc.

1.2

The current centralized solution

Solutions for the internet censorship problem are currently available on the market. However,
they come with a high price tag and are still vulnerable to ISPs control. It’s not a secret that the
VPN industry is growing fast, not least of all because of the lure of the industry’s huge profit
margins. As an insider, Privatix Network team is aware of some of the major problems in the
centralized VPN arena, including false statements about log-keeping policies, data selling,
overcharging, unclear billing policies, and the incredible margins that are siphoned off into
marketing, advertising, etc.

In fact, the VPN industry doesn’t protect users’ privacy and data while the users pay a high price
for VPN services only because there are no better options on the market.

1.3

New opportunities

4

With its huge potential to be one of the most powerful forces in the internet technologies sphere,
blockchain will enable us to turn current internet privacy and security practices on its head,
simultaneously speeding up the internet (without any physical scaling.)

Privatix Network is a conceptual new solution that will benefit ordinary internet users,
developers, and online businesses. We intend to reduce costs and margins on the VPN consumer
market, eliminate the middleman and enable people to share (and profit from sharing) their spare
broadband connection. We will provide a new horizon for developers to build awesome apps and
services on the basis of this network, e.g. CDN, business intelligence proxy tools, anti-censorship
SDKs for apps, etc. The wealth of potential applications is only limited by imagination.

1.4

Our mission and goals

Our mission is ​to create a decentralized and fully autonomous VPN Network on blockchain with
advanced Internet bandwidth marketplace powered by its own crypto-economy.

Our goal is to show a possibility to create new kinds of products and services based on the
Network capabilities which have the potential to transform a number of markets like VPN, CDN,
cyber security and encryption or may even change the landscape of application monetization
market.

2. Token PRIX
The Privatix Network ecosystem will be based on crypto-economic principles. PRIX will be the
only crypto-currency allowed for mutual settlements during the buying / selling interactions
between network participants.

2.1

Specifications

5

PRIX​, an ​ERC20 token on the Ethereum Blockchain, is the central part of the Privatix Network.
It’s main purpose is to allow network participants to exchange value.

Token name

Privatix Token

Ticker

PRIX

Type

ERC20 ( Ethereum )

Address

0x3adfc4999f77d04c8341bac5f3a76f58dff5b37a

Decimals

8

Total supply (after burning)

1,275,455 PRIX (fixed, no dilution)

Mining

No mining or any other means of increasing token amounts will
apply to Privatix Token

Token utility

Internal crypto-currency to exchange value (utility) between
Privatix Network participants

Token issuer

Privatix Token Ltd (a Gibraltar limited company)

Token special conditions

Token exchanges for purpose of buying / selling internet
broadband (between Privatix Network participants only) will be
subject to commission fee - up to 1% of transaction price in
PRIX. No fees for any other transactions and exchanges except
payments for bandwidth.

2.2

The crypto-economy

The main economic agents inside the crypto-economy of the Privatix Network are:
● Users who want to sell their internet bandwidth (Agents)
● Users who want to buy internet bandwidth from Agents (Clients)

6

PRIX will be the only crypto-currency allowed for mutual settlements. At the same time, the
PRIX token itself is expected to be traded on external exchanges. Assuming there is sufficient
market volume, PRIX shall be freely

exchangeable

for other cryptocurrencies in both

directions and anytime, subject to applicable regulations and/or restrictions in the various
jurisdictions.

PRIX is not intended to be a digital currency, security, commodity, bond, debt instrument or any
kind of financial instrument or investment carrying equivalent rights, nor are the PRIX tokens
intended to represent any form of money or legal tender in any jurisdiction, nor any
representation of money (including electronic money). Accordingly, any protections offered by
applicable law in relation to the purchase, holding and/or sale of the instruments and/or
investments referred to above and generally known as “securities”, should not apply to your
holding or sale of PRIX tokens.

PRIX tokens are intended to be digital goods, similar to

downloadable software, digital music, and etc.

7

In basic economic terms, on the demand side there are Clients and on the supply side there are
Agents. Clients want to buy broadband from Agents, and Agents, accordingly, want to sell it. So,
at the market equilibrium point, the price of internet broadband will be represented in PRIX
tokens (for example, 1 MB = 0.001 PRIX).

In the event of an excessive demand for Agents' broadband, the PRIX token is going to increase
in price, thereby likely to attract more Agents to the network (as they will see they can sell their
broadband for a higher price) and vice versa.

Demand and supply will be self-regulated effectively by market forces; attracted in the case of
high traffic costs by Agents craving profit, and in the case of low traffic cost by Clients wishing
to buy broadband as cheaply as possible.

2.3

Examples of use

Here are two very simple examples which demonstrate PRIX tokens payments inside the Privatix
Network ecosystem.

Example 1
● Hans, a regular internet user from Germany, has a 100 Mbps channel and he does not use
it completely, especially at night.
● He has already paid his ISP so no additional costs are required.
● Hans installs the Privatix Network software and thereby becomes an Agent.
● On the other side of the world is a Chinese internet user, Lee.
● Lee does not have access to many internet sites because internet censorship in China is
very strict.
● Lee installs a VPN program based on the Privatix Network and through it buys
broadband from Hans. Now he can surf the internet via the encrypted German VPN and
get access to all internet sites.

8

● Hans receives payment in PRIX as Lee uses his free bandwidth.

Example 2
● Alex has an internet hosting business. He rents 10 dedicated servers and sells hosting
services for his customers, e.g. site owners.
● All servers are already paid for but their bandwidth is significantly underused.
● Alex installs the Privatix Network Agent software on all his servers and starts selling his
bandwidth.
● Another user, Ivan, the owner of a video site, has to rent expensive servers so that people
can watch HD video content from around the world.
● Ivan, in order to save on data transfer, uses a product based on the Privatix Network - a
CDN - which allows him to buy cheap broadband from hundreds of Agents like Alex.
● As a result, Alex fully loads his servers and receives profit while Ivan cuts content
delivery costs.

3. Business model
The main assets in the Privatix Network are “exit nodes owners” (Agents). These Agents host on
their internet-connected devices special lightweight software which enables them to sell their
internet bandwidth.

Most internet-connected users have a lot of spare bandwidth that already has been paid for to an
ISP but mostly remain unused.

Privatix will enable the sale of this unused asset (bandwidth) to other network participants and
strives to create meaningful value for Agents with no additional costs or any initial investment
from their side (installing the free software is quick and easy).

9

All financial relationships between Agents and Clients will be in PRIX crypto-currency only.
Every token exchange linked to payment for internet broadband will be subject to a fee that will
be accumulated by Privatix for maintenance and future development. The fee will be in the range
up to 1% of the transaction amount. All operations except payments for internet bandwidth, like
token trades on exchanges, will be free from any fees.

3.1

Privatix Network

3.2

Proof of Concept (PoC) products

Our mission is to create a decentralized and fully autonomous network on blockchain - the
Privatix Network – but, hand in hand with this, one of our primary goals is to show how people

10

can make the best use of this network and benefit from it in many different ways, including
financially.

For this reason, we ourselves will create a number of revolutionary PoC products, based on the
Privatix Network, in order to demonstrate to entrepreneurs and developers how they can use this
new platform in a number of innovative ways. Privatix, as platform pioneer, also has the
potential to derive significant profits from these products by transforming several popular VPN
and other markets (e.g. cyber security).

The first product we will focus on will be a decentralized unblockable VPN on blockchain that
we believe will address the challenges facing cybersecurity and internet censorship in the digital
sphere forever. We expect to totally change the consumer VPN market, enabling people to use
VPN for free by sharing their own network, or pay less than $5-10 per year (10-20 times less
than current centralized VPN prices).

4. Long-term strategy
We define the long-term strategy as a plan for the next three years. In the current real-world
situation of internet disruption and blockchain technologies development, it is a challenge to
create a fully detailed plan, but by sticking to our mission and goals, and relying on our extensive
experience, we are completely confident that we will find the right way in any situation.

Facilitation of a Privatix Network platform, provision of network supply in the form of Agents,
as well as the creation of demand in the form of Clients are our main objectives for the
immediate future.

The challenge we face will be to facilitate a balanced marketplace: we will address this by
providing adequate compensation to Agents and at the same time create demand by customers.

11

Initially, we will take on the roles of customers and PoC products’ owners. We will use our
funds to promote the network and ensure its growth and maintain the optimum balance between
supply and demand.

At this time we predict the network will include tens of thousands or even millions of Agents. By
developing a variety of products based on its foundations, the network will start taking on a life
of its own. Privatix Network will benefit only from the network token exchanges fee and will
develop the infrastructure of the network and products.

5. Technical specifications
This document describes high level architectural and process overview of Privatix Network.
More details can be found in our ​technical documentation

5. 1 General
The Privatix Network attempts to deliver multiple services that can be used through Privatix
network. ​Privatix Network consists of nodes running Privatix distributed applications. Each
node can provide or consume services. For each service ​Client - those who consume and pay for
services, ​Agent​ - those who provide services and receive payment.
Concept
The idea that stands behind this project is to create a process that will achieve consensus among
Privatix network users and develop software products that will allow users to provide and
consume services on this network. Those processes should be decentralized as much as possible
to remove single point of failure both technically and politically. We also aim to protect the
privacy of Privatix Network users.
Decentralized applications

12

Decentralized applications provides different services on top of Privatix Network. New
application deployment is greatly simplified with the help of Privatix Core Engine, which
enables offering publishing and discovery, agreement signing and termination, usage based
payments for each unit of service, billing driven access management and powerful API that give
comprehensive control of service lifecycle. All that completely open source and decentralized.
Each application will usually comprise of two independently installed components:
● Privatix Core Engine
● Service plug-in

Privatix Core Engine
Privatix core engine is software that implements consensus algorithms and operations that are
common for any service delivered through Privatix network. First goal of Privatix Core Engine is
to process untrusted data in trustless environment, verify that it can be univocally understood and
processed. Secondary is to automate common tasks for service providers and customers of
distributed application.
Service plug-in
Service plug-in is a software that provides a particular service running along with Privatix Core
Engine and using its API. It makes possible to provide or consume particular service, while
offloading all consensus and routine tasks to Privatix Core Engine.

5.2 Basic usage scenario
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

Agent creates service offering and places deposit.
Client discovers offerings, compares and accepts them.
Client signs agreement and places deposit to prove his ability to pay for the service.
Agent provides access to service.
Client starts to consume the service in units and pays for each unit
Service terminated and payment finalized due to lag in payment
Client’s and Agent’s rating updated based on history of their payments processing.
13

5.3 Consensus
Any decentralized application should define protocols that user should agree. This allows any
application to get the same result, while running on any device, by any user. Privatix Network
should agree on several procedures:
● Offerings processing
● Payments processing
● Service access procedure

Offerings - are formalized proposal of service by Agent to any Client on the network. Same
procedure of offering placement, discovery, acceptance and disposal makes possible to all
Privatix nodes to “speak the same language” and in particular:
14

● how offerings should be published (by Agents)
● how to discover offerings (by Clients)
● how to validate offerings to ensure that they can be unambiguously interpreted (by
Clients)
● how Client signals to Agent that he accepts his offering
● how Agent verifies that Client possesses required amount of funds for particular offering
and that these funds cannot be presented to another Agent (double spent)

Offering can be seen as a contract that Agent publishes and sign. This contract should include all
necessary information in regards of:
● which service is provided
● in which units it is measured
● when and where Client should pay
● in which cases Agent will stop providing the service

Offering consensus is reached by ensuring that all offerings are conform to Offering template.
Offering template - a template (schema) for the offering of particular service. When we say
particular service we mean not just for e.g. “VPN service”, but concrete implementation of VPN
service that both Clients and Agents trusts. Each offering for each single implementation will
have its own offering template.

Payments - are payment for service usage paid by Client to Agent for each agreed portion of
service and for agreed price. These agreements are part of offering and thus known to Client
before he accepts it.

5.4 Blockchain

15

Blockchain technology helps us to achieve full decentralization. We currently use Ethereum, but
another blockchain (e.g. Cosmos) can be used to implement the same logic. In particular,
blockchain is used for:
● micro-payments
● offering discovery
● data for rating system
Smart contracts
Ethereum smart contracts playing important role in Privatix DApp architecture. There are two
smart contracts that we use. First one is simple ERC20 smart contract that holds mapping
between users Ethereum addresses (aka wallets) and PRIX tokens. We call it Privatix Token
Contact (hereinafter PTC). It was deployed during ICO.

Privatix Token Contact (PTC) is used for:
●

Token exchange between users

●

Delegation of tokens to PSC (described later)

●

Get balance of user

●

Point of migration between Privatix Service Contracts (if new version is released)

Any user that want to start using services based on Privatix Network will first get PRIX tokens
on Privatix Token Contact (PTC). Users also need to have ETH to pay for transactions on
Ethereum network. PTC balances will be used to buy and sell PRIX only, rather than pay for
services.

To provide additional logic and features, as well as support future upgrades, Privatix deployed
additional smart contract named Privatix Service Contract (hereinafter PSC). PSC implements
state channels features, service offering discovery, incentivize fair usage and controls supply
visibility. To use Privatix services user will delegate control of chosen amount of his PRIX
tokens to PSC. PSC will then hold internal mapping between user’s Ethereum address and PRIX
balance and will make transfer operations according to payments for services. User may transfer

16

his tokens from PSC back to PTC. Each smart contract method invocation is subject to user’s
signature verification same as regular Ethereum transaction thus ensuring each request is
authenticated.

Privatix Service Contract (PSC) is used for:
●

User balance storage

●

Agent offering registration and deposit placement

●

Agent offering deactivation and deposit return

●

Retrieve available supply for each offering

●

Pop up offering to signal it is still actual

●

Creating state channel

●

Cooperative close of channel (normal close)

●

Uncooperative close of channel (dispute close)

●

Top up deposit of state channel

●

Get internal balance of user

●

Transfer user tokens to his PTC wallet

Offering registration
PSC has method that allows Agent to register offering. Placing of full offering, including all the
details can be a costly operation on blockchain as it will require significant amount of blockchain
storage. Instead of full offering only offering hash is published. It is used as a unique identifier of
the offering. During method invocation Agent will specify the following parameters:
● hash of the offering
● minimum required deposit for Client
● maximum supply (explained later)
● address where full offering can be retrieved
17

Together with offering registration Agent is required to place Agent’s deposit, which is equal to
maximum supply multiplied by minimum deposit. This step is intended to make sybil attack
ineffective, by forcing Agent to lock exactly the same amount of tokens as would Clients do, if
they will accept his offering up to maximum supply.

Each offering registration will create Ethereum event (aka Ethereum log). Clients will listen to
such events and thus will be notified, when new offering is registered.

Address field will contain URL, where Clients would send request to get full offering details.
Currently we use Tor hidden service URL as address. This allows Clients to get full offerings
from Agents without revealing their IP addresses and makes Agent’s IP addresses harvesting
complicated.

Offering removal
Offering can be removed by Agent only after some predefined time passes after offering
registration or offering pop-up. This period called offering removal period. Such measure is
intended to limit effectiveness of sybil attack or irresponsible behavior.

Offering pop-up
In real world offerings likely to become irrelevant as time passes. Privatix Clients will accept
“fresh” offering and ignore old once. In case Agent want to signal that his offering is still actual,
he can pop-up offering. This operation is cheaper than removal of old offering and registering
same offering once more.
Service supply
18

Maximum service supply is the maximum number of concurrent Clients that Agent can serve
within single offering. When Agent registers his offering in PSC, he must specify maximum
service supply. Each accepted offering will be deducted from the available supply. And vice
versa, each closed state channel will increase the supply. Observing current service supply will
allow Clients to find out, if Agent still has available supply to serve the Client. PSC will ensure
demand for the offering cannot exceed the supply.

State channels
PSC has method that creates state channel, when Client accepts Agent’s offering. State channel
can be seen as temporary bank account where Client places deposit and Agent can withdraw any
portion of this deposit. Agent can withdraw only amount specified by Client and cannot exceed
state channel deposit. During withdrawal Agent will send to PSC transaction, which includes
state channel unique identifier and amount for withdrawal signed by both Client and Agent. This
allowance will be sent by Client to Agent off-chain to minimize costly on-chain transactions.
Allowance will be proportional to service consumed by Client. Agent will use the greatest
allowance received from Client when closing state channel. During this operation amount
allowed by Client minus network fee (explained later) will be transferred to Agent’s wallet and
reminder will be returned back to Client’s wallet.

State channel can be closed by Agent or by Client. During normal operation, it is expected that
Client will send signed allowance to Agent and the latest will close state channel. Such operation
called cooperative close or normal close.

In case Agent doesn’t close state channel Client can initiate uncooperative close (or dispute
close). Client will usually perform uncooperative close to return deposit back to his wallet, when
Agent fails to provide service at all. Client required to make two transactions. First to initiate
uncooperative close and second to close channel and receive full deposit back. Second
transaction can be made only after some time has passed after the first transaction. This time

19

period called challenge period. If Client has sent allowance to Agent, but initiated uncooperative
close, Agent can make cooperative close before challenge period passes.
Network fee
Network fee is a fee that goes in favor of Privatix company. This fee is intended for further
development and maintenance of Privatix core. It can be changed by Privatix company anytime,
but only between 0% and 1% of Agent’s revenue. This range is defined during PSC deploy and
cannot be changed afterwards.

5.5 User rating
Both Agents and Clients can be assigned a rating based on their prior behavior. Rating is
calculated by analyzing blockchain transactions. Rating calculation involves analysis of
cooperative closes vs uncooperative, amount of tokens spent/earned, rating of partners, time of
transaction. Detailed explanation of the rating system can be found ​here​.

5.6 Service offering
Each service offering must be created strictly according to its offering template.
Offering template
Offering template maybe seen as standard contract for particular service, where some parameters
are variable per Agent. Offering template shipped with service plug-in. Each service plug-in has
unique offering template. Both Agent and Client have identical offering template, when choose
to use same service plug-in.

Offering template may be imagined as service agreement template:
This SERVICE CONTRACT is made and entered into by and between ANY CLIENT that
accepts this offering (hereinafter the “Client”), and provider with ​[AGENT PUBLIC KEY] (hereinafter the
“Agent”). Whereas, Agent and Client desire to enter into a relationship in which Agent will
provide “VPN service” to Client. Client must pay to Agent for each ​[BILLING FREQUENCY] ​[UNIT NAME]
20

consumed. Price for each ​[UNIT NAME] is ​[UNIT PRICE] PRIX. If Client doesn’t consume service for ​[MAX INACTIVE
TIME]​ Agent can terminate this service contract... etc.
Offering template doesn’t contain full text, but only fields that should be filled by Agent. But, if
desired, it can be easily included in

Offering template - is JSON schema that includes offering fields to be filled by Agent. Fields
can be divided in two major groups:
● Core fields - fields that common for any service. They are required for proper Privatix
core operation. They are generic and doesn't contain any service specifics.
● Service custom fields - (aka additional parameters) any fields that needed for particular
service operation. They do not processed by Privatix core, but passed to Privatix service
plug-in for any custom logic.

Each Offering template has unique hash. Any offering always includes in its body hash of
corresponding offering template. That's how offering is linked to template and related service
plug-in.
When Client receives offering, he checks that:
● offering template with noted hash exists in Client's database
● offering passes validation according to offering template

Such validation ensures that both Agent and Client has:
● exactly same offering template
● offering is properly filled according to offering template schema
Core fields
Here is an example of offering template core fields:
Field title

Field description
21

name of service

Friendly name of service

offering template hash Hash of offering template
nonce

uuid v4. Allows same offering to be published twice, resulting in unique
offering hash.

agent public key

Agent's public key

service supply

Maximum Number of concurrent orders that can coexist

unit name

name of single unit of service

unit price

Price in PRIX for single unit of service.

min. units

Minimum number of units Agent expect to sell. Deposit must suffice to
buy this amount.

max. units

Maximum number of units Agent will sell.

billing type

Model of billing: postpaid or prepaid

billing frequency

Specified in units of service. Represent, how often Client MUST send
payment cheque to Agent.

max. billing unit lag

Maximum tolerance of Agent to payment lag. If reached, service access
is suspended.

max. suspend time

Maximum time (seconds) Agent will wait for Client to continue using
the service, before Agent will terminate service.

max. inactive time

Maximum time (seconds) Agent will wait for Client to start using the
service for the first time, before Agent will terminate service.

setup fee

Setup fee is the price that must be paid before starting using a service.

free units

Number of first free units. May be used for trial period.

country of service

Origin of service

Service custom fields
Using service custom fields in offering template we can add any logic, that should be interpreted
by either service plug-in or custom GUI. For example, we can add “Min. download speed” and

22

mark it as required field. Agent will be required to fill this field to pass offering validation.
Client’s service plug-in then may check, if Agent do provide download speed as promised in his
offering and may terminate service, if not. Service custom fields makes possible to create custom
logic, while Privatix Core Engine will verify that offering is published strictly according to
template.

Service offering discovery
Before service can be used, Client should:
●

discover service offerings

●

accept offering and place deposit

●

get service access (incl. address of service endpoint, credential, settings, etc.)

Discovery of service offering is implemented based on Ethereum events (aka logs) as described
earlier. Client receives offering event together with hash of offering and address (URL), where
he can send request to get full offering. In future we may extend URL schemes to support
different mediums, but currently URL includes Tor hidden service address. Tor hidden service
allows to publish web-service that is accessible through Tor network as regular web-service
without revealing IP address of that web-service. This is done to prevent simple harvesting of
Agent’s IP addresses.

Service Offering Messaging Channel

23

Service Offering Messaging Channel (SOMC) is a service that used to get offering and endpoint
messages.
SOMC is implemented as web-service and has three endpoints:
● ping
● offering
● endpoint
Client will send HTTP GET request to this web-service and specify offering hash. Agent will
respond with full offering message.
Client will send HTTP GET request to this web-service and specify state channel key. Agent
will respond with full endpoint message.
Ping
Ping is simply used to check that SOMC is accessible.
Offering message
Offering message is offering that is signed with Agent’s private key. Client will verify that Agent
possess the same private key used to publish offering hash on blockchain and to sign offering
retrieved via SOMC. Client will also validate that he has template for the offering and that
offering is filled according to template schema. If all validation passed successfully, Client will
store offering in his database.
Endpoint message
After Client has accepted offering state channel is created and deposit is placed on it. Both Agent
and Client will be notified via Ethereum event on successful state channel creation. Then Agent
will prepare special message that includes all necessary information for Client to start using the
service.
Client will send HTTP GET request to SOMC and specify state channel unique identifier. Agent
will then respond with endpoint message. To ensure that sensitive data, such as credentials and
IP address are accessible only by Client that accepted Agent’s offering, endpoint message is
encrypted using Client’s public key. Client’s public key is restored from Ethereum transaction
that used to create state channel for the particular offering.
Endpoint template

24

Same as offering, endpoint message should be clearly understand by Client’s service plug-in.
Client also must be sure that no untrusted data is injected via this message. Here we use the same
method as with offerings. Client and Agent both have endpoint template (aka access template),
where they both know what data is required for Client to start using the service.
After Client has received endpoint message, he will validate signature and compliance to
endpoint template. Same as with offering, endpoint template is a JSON schema and has
mandatory core fields and optional custom service fields.
Core fields
Field title

Field description

access template hash

Hash of this access template

nonce

uuid v4. Allows same access template to be shipped twice, resulting in
unique access template offering hash.

username

Hash of this access template

password

Can be used to transfer password

payment server address Address and port of agent's payment receiver endpoint
service server address

E.g. address of VPN server.

Service custom fields
Same as with offering template, endpoint template can hold any fields that is necessary for
custom service logic. For example it may hold various settings that Client’s service plug-in need
to preconfigure before start connection to Agent’s server. It maybe config file, server certificate,
etc.
Service offering messaging channel
Service offering messaging channel diagram shows sequence of communication between Client
and Agent through Service Offering Messaging Channel and Blockchain. This process allows to
discover new offerings, get offering details, securely pass credentials for the service access and
securely provide service endpoint address (e.g. VPN server).

25

26

Privatix Core Engine
Components
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

Blockchain monitor - get Ethereum events, filter, create jobs
Ethereum - package that wrap all communication with Ethereum blockchain
Job queue - create, update and invoke job processing
Job processor - job handler, that process logic for each job
Client billing monitor - send payments to Agent according to usage
Agent billing monitor - verify that payments align with service usage and control service
access.
Pay server - accept payments from Client
UI server - server that exposes API which is used to view and control accounts, services,
etc.
Session server - server that exposes API which is used by service plug-in to provide or
consume service, start, stop, get usage data.
SOMC - send/get offering and endpoint messages, verify compliance with corresponding
templates

Responsibilities
Client role
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

register service session usage
automatically generate payments based on service consumption
hold service status (pending, active, suspended, terminated)
hold state channel status (pending, active, terminated)
synchronize service status between service plug-in and core database
send and receive Ethereum transactions: transfer tokens between PSC and PTC, create
state channel, make uncooperative close of state channel, check PRIX and ETH balances
validate offering and endpoint messages to be compliant with templates
communicate with Agent via Tor network
increase state channel deposit
save application state in database
allow to view and control application data via UI API
logging

27

Agent role
● publish/remove/pop-up service offering
● register service session usage
● verify payments received in-time and automatically control access to service based on
billing, including resume of access on payment clearance
● automatically terminate service access, when no Client activity made too long
● hold service status (pending, active, suspended, terminated)
● hold state channel status (pending, active, terminated)
● synchronize service status between service plug-in and core database
● send and receive Ethereum transactions: transfer tokens between PSC and PTC, make
cooperative close of state channel, automatically make cooperative close (when Client
creates uncooperative close request), check PRIX and ETH balances
● create offering and endpoint messages that are compliant with templates
● communicate with Client via Tor network
● save application state in database
● allow to view and control application data via UI API
● logging

Service plug-in
Service plug-in uses Privatix Core Engine API to provide and consume services and benefit from
core functionality such as automated micro-payments, data validation and service life-cycle
automation.
Each service plug-in has:
● dedicated offering template
● dedicated access template
● custom distributed application code
Service plug-in can provide or consume service. It will respectively communicate with Agent or
Client API.
Agent
Agent will subscribe for newly created state channels. Only state channels that passed all
validations will be retrieved by service plug-in. This event can be handled to set up new account
on arbitrary server for example.
28

After that Agent’s service plug-in will subscribe to changes to that state channel and will be
notified, if service access should be suspended or terminated completely. It will also confirm that
service was successfully suspended or terminated to ensure that Privatix Core service status is in
sync with service plug-in.
Agent’s plug-in may push some common server settings, that will be included as part of endpoint
message. This method make possible to handle server configuration changes, such dynamic IP
address, etc.
Agent’s plug-ins will periodically report on service consumption to Privatix Core.
Client
Client service plug-in will subscribe for new state channels. Together with new state channel
created event plug-in will receive whole decrypted endpoint message. It then may prepare to start
service usage by configuring 3rd party client software with appropriate settings, credentials, etc.
Client will also subscribe to state channel (service) status changes. If Privatix core will notify,
that service status changed, it may implement start or stop of session. If service become
terminated, than service plug-in will stop usage and delete any data related to the service.
Client’s plug-ins will periodically report on service consumption to Privatix Core.

29

5.6 Service controller functional scheme

30

5.7 Service controller protocol scheme

31

5.8 Glossary
General

Privatix Company

Privatix ( ​Privatix.io ) company develop software and
process, which will allow Privatix network users to
provide and consume services.

Privatix Network

Network that consists of nodes (users) on this network,
which can sell and buy Privatix Services using PRIX
tokens

PRIX Token

Token on ethereum blockchain that was created during
Privatix.io​ Token Sale

Privatix Service (service)

Digital good that is offered by Agent and can be
consumed by Client on Privatix network

Marketplace

Website maintained by Privatix Company that will
simplify usage of Privatix Network as well as perform
some messaging function on early stages of development
process. All messaging functionality is expected to be
moved on decentralized channel on latter stage of
development.

Technical

Agent

Participant of Privatix network that wants to sell services.

Client

Participant of Privatix network that wants to buy services.

Service offering (SO)
(aka Offering)

Properly filled and signed Service Offering Template.
Service offering purpose is Agent's proposal of Privatix
Service, which describes its parameters and conditions of
sales for specific service. Service offering format is
published by Privatix company in form of Service
Offering Template
32

Service
(SOT)

Offering

Template

Documented format, that Agents uses to publish their
Service Offering. Format MUST be known by both Client
and Agent to successfully agree on Service Offering

Service
Authentication
Template (SAT)

Documented format, that Client uses to pass
authentication data to Agent. Agent will authenticate
Client, when Client start using service according to data
specified in this template. Format MUST be known by
both Client and Agent to successfully perform
authentication.

Service
(SAT)

Documented format, that Agent uses to pass Service
Endpoint Address to Client. Client will connect to
Service Endpoint using data in this template. Format
MUST be known by both Client and Agent to
successfully connect to service.

Endpoint

Template

Agent Key

Cryptographic key pair generated according to appendix
F. of ​Ethereum Yellow paper​, which is used by Agent to
encrypt/decrypt and sign messages.

Client Key

Cryptographic key pair generated according to appendix
F. of ​Ethereum Yellow paper​, which is used by Client to
encrypt/decrypt and sign messages.

Agent Ethereum Address

Ethereum address of corresponding Agent's Public Key.

Client Ethereum Address

Ethereum address of corresponding Client's Public Key

Service Offering message (aka
offering message)

Filled Service Offering Template.

Service Authentication message
(aka authentication message)

Filled Service Authentication Template.

Service Endpoint message (aka
endpoint message)

Filled Service Endpoint Template.

Offering message hash

Hash of filled Service Offering Template using SHA3
(according to ​Ethereum Yellow paper​).

Authentication message hash

Hash of filled Service Authentication Template using
SHA3 (according to ​Ethereum Yellow paper​).

33

Endpoint message hash

Hash of filled Service Endpoint Template using SHA3
(according to ​Ethereum Yellow paper​).

Privatix Token Contract (PTC)

Ethereum contract that holds PRIX token that were
minted during Privatix.io Token Sale.

Privatix Service Contract (PSC)

Ethereum contract that controls service usage logic and
payment processing by Agents and Clients.

Service Deposit

Deposit that is placed to Privatix Service Contract by
Client to prevent double spending and guaranteed
payment to Agent for Privatix Service.

Service Offering
Channel

Messaging

Channel that used to publish full Service Offering
message, Authentication message and Service Endpoint
message. Used by Agent and Client to exchange
necessary information that allow Client to start using
Privatix Service proposed by Agent.

Service Endpoint

Node that provide Privatix Service and operated by
Agent.

Service Endpoint Address

DNS or IP address of Agent service node, that Client will
use to receive service.

Marketplace

Web site maintained by Privatix Company that will
simplify usage of Privatix Network as well as perform
some messaging function on early stages of development
process. All messaging functionality is expected to be
moved on decentralized channel on latter stage of
development.

Products names

VPN

Centralized VPN service

dVPN

Decentralized VPN service based on Privatix Network

dCDN

Decentralized CDN based on Privatix Network

dProxyMarket

Decentralized Proxy Maket based on Privatix Network

34

6. Markets overview
Below is a brief overview of the target markets for the Privatix Network and possible products
that can be made by using the network capabilities of buying / selling internet bandwidth.

6.1

Global VPN market

There was an estimate of 3.5 billion internet users worldwide in 2016. This means that about 45
percent of the global population accessed the internet that year. The majority of global internet
users are located in East and South Asia, while China is the largest online market in the world.

In 2016, China had over 721 million internet users, more than double the amount of third-ranked
U.S., with nearly 290 million internet users. The global average internet speed stood at 6.1Mbps
that year.

With the proliferation of inexpensive smartphones, many of today’s 5 billion feature phone users
will convert to internet users in the next 5 years. New users will mainly reside in countries with
strict or strengthening internet censorship.

According to latest reports, the Virtual Private Network (VPN) market is expected to reach USD
106 billion by 2022 at a CAGR (compound annual growth rate) of 13%.

35

The major driving factors of this market are increasing internet censorship, an increase in the
number of loud security incidents, growing industries, and the increasing number of connected
devices mostly in countries with strict internet censorship; countries like China, countries in Asia
and Africa, and now Russia as well.

There is no leader who controls more than 10% of the VPN market. Most of the 400 primary
VPN providers compete for a small fraction of market share.
1

The most well-known players are: Hotspot Shield (Anchorfree ) backed with more than $62
2

million invested by VC’s, Zenmate with more than $3 million in investments, and Hidemyass
3

(Privax) that was acquired by AVG in 2015 for $40 million .

1

https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/anchorfree
https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/zenguard
3
https://now.avg.com/avg-acquires-privax/
2

36

6.2

Cyber security and privacy protection
4

According to Zion Market Research , the global cyber security market was valued at USD
105.45 billion in 2015; is expected to reach USD 181.77 billion in 2021 and is anticipated to
grow at a CAGR (compound annual growth rate) of 9.5% between 2016 and 2021.

Cyber security is associated with information technology security, which focuses on protecting
computers and confidential data stored in it from cyber criminals. The cyber security market
provides several benefits, including enhanced security of cyberspaces, expanded digital
safeguards, and quicker reaction time to national crises. These benefits automatically enhance the
value of services to market end-users.

An example of a major cyber security issue is linked ransomware attacks when people's
computers are locked and bitcoin payment demanded by cyber criminals to unlock. These events
have increased awareness of encryption and protection issues.

Google Trends show spike of interest to ransomware, viruses, and bitcoins after attacks
4

https://www.zionmarketresearch.com/sample/cyber-security-market

37

The cyber security market is segmented based on security types, solution and vertical, and by
regions. On the basis of security types, the market is divided into network security, cloud
security, wireless security, and others. The cyber solution segment includes identity and access
management (IAM), encryption, risk and compliance management, data loss prevention,
antivirus and anti-malware, firewall, and others. By vertical, the market is segmented into
aerospace, government, financial services, telecommunication, healthcare, and others.

6.3

CDN

Companies leverage Content Delivery Networks (CDN) to increase their online presence in the
global market and deliver a high-quality user experience worldwide. CDNs improve site speed,
page load times, availability, and performance dramatically. This not only results in higher
5

end-user satisfaction but also increases customer adoption and conversion rates .

Market size and growth trends
● The market size of CDN is expected to grow from $4.95 billion in 2015 to $15.73 billion
in 2020, and to $70.3 billion by 2025.
● The mobile CDN market is estimated to grow from USD 2.11 billion in 2015 to USD
13.40 billion in 2020, at a compound annual growth rate CAGR (compound annual
growth rate) of 44.7% from 2015 to 2020. In regional segmentation, North America is
expected to be the largest market in terms of market size, while APAC, Latin America,
and MEA are expected to emerge rapidly in this market at high CAGRs.
● The North American region dominated the CDN market in 2015 and is expected to reach
$4.6 billion by 2017.
● There are approximately 8.8 million websites using CDNs worldwide.
● Out of the top 10,000 websites, 48.3% are currently using a CDN.
6

● CDNs, globally, currently serve 50% of content consumed over the internet .

5
6

https://www.cdnetworks.com/en/news/content-delivery-network-and-website-performance-stats-2016/513
https://www.cdnetworks.com/en/news/content-delivery-network-and-website-performance-stats-2016/513

38

● In 2018, worldwide online CDN traffic is expected to reach 72,893 petabytes per month.
The data volume of global CDN internet traffic from 2016 to 2021 (in petabytes per
7

month) is illustrated in the graph below.

7

https://www.statista.com/statistics/267184/content-delivery-network-internet-traffic-worldwide/

39

Growth drivers
● Proliferation of rich media and video content - expected to grow at 4G speed
● Increasing use of connected and smart devices
● Optimized network solutions
● Digitization among organizations
● Highest growth in the online gaming industry

Competitive landscape
8

The top 10000 websites in the world use the following platforms :

8

https://www.similartech.com/categories/content-delivery-network

40

6.4

Business intelligence and data collecting (Proxy / Socks gateways)

The global business intelligence (BI) market was worth $14.15 billion in 2015 and projected to
reach $26.89 billion by 2020. BI technologies have slowly but steadily revolutionized the field of
9

business strategy and management and penetrated all over the world .

Market size and growth trends
● The global BI market is estimated to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of
10

9.5% between 2016 and 2021 .
● Global revenue in the BI and analytics software market is forecast to reach $18.3 billion
11

in 2017, an increase of 7.3% from 2016, according to Gartner, Inc .
● Data discovery / visualization, self-service BI, and data quality / master data management
12

are the three most important trends .
● While the use of traditional dashboard BI is receding into the background, self-service
machine data analytics, self-service data discovery and explorations, and BI and analytics
13

in the Cloud are rapidly gaining momentum across the global spectrum .
● There is increasing investment in robust BI platforms that can handle multiple data
management capabilities such as integration, storage, visualization, statistical and
quantitative analysis, instead of multiple specialty tools.

9

https://www.mordorintelligence.com/industry-reports/global-business-intelligence-bi-vendors-market-indu
stry
10
https://bi-survey.com/top-business-intelligence-trends-2017
11
http://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/3612617
12
https://bi-survey.com/top-business-intelligence-trends-2017
13
http://www.dataversity.net/comparative-study-business-intelligence-analytics-market-trends/

41

Growth drivers
● Increasing usage of data analytics
● Rising penetration of cloud technologies
● Need for complex datasets drives investments in data preparation
42

● Increasing adoption of BI in small- and medium-sized enterprises
● Support for real-time events and streaming data

Competitive landscape (including list of most prominent players)

● Some of the key players in the global BI market include Information Builders,
International Business Machines Corporation, Datawatch, Microsoft Corporation,
Microstrategy, Inc., Oracle Corporation, Panorama, Pentaho (a Hitachi Company), Qlik
Technologies, SAP SE, SAS Institute, Sisense Inc., Tableau Software, Tibco Software,
and Yellowfin International Pty Ltd.
● Gartner’s Magic Quadrant for Business Intelligence and Analytics Platforms.

43

6.5

Mobile apps and software monetization

Trends point to hybrid monetization models, such as in-app ads and in-app purchases. In-app
advertising is set to be a key driver of mobile growth over the coming years.

Market size and growth trends

● In 2015, the mobile app industry generated $69.7 billion in gross annual revenue; it is
14

projected to exceed $189 billion by 2020 .

● The worldwide in-app advertising and app store revenues of mobile apps and games in
2015 and predicted in 2020 is illustrated below (in billion US$):

14

https://www.statista.com/statistics/293636/app-store-composition-business-models/

44

● May 2016 - Android device owners spent an average of $15.53 making in-app gaming
15

purchases; in contrast, iOS device owners spent $10.96.

● December 2016: 92% of games on Google Play were free to download, and 23% of those
16

used in-app purchases as a monetization model .
● Top app monetization models according to mobile developers worldwide (June 2015):

15
16

https://www.statista.com/statistics/673479/mobile-games-Android-share-monetization-model/
https://www.statista.com/statistics/673479/mobile-games-Android-share-monetization-model/

45

● North America is the leading region in third party in-app advertising both in absolute and
relative terms; Asia Pacific will record the largest increase in the next five years at a
177% compound annual growth rate between 2015 and 2020.

Growth drivers
● Customization apps
● Aggregator apps
● Enterprise apps – micro and hybrid
● Software subscription model
● Messaging apps
17

● Internet of Things
● Android First

18

● UX, accessibility, and security are more important than ever

Competitive landscape
● 9 million mobile app developers in the world; 60% make $500 or less profit per month
● Less than 0.1% of all apps are commercially successful
● Companies that focus on mobile in-app advertising command the majority of the mobile
advertising market and companies that focus on native advertising as a primary revenue
19

stream are the most successful at monetizing through mobile .
● Top app monetization solution providers include:

20

○ Google AdMob
○ Facebook Audience Network
○ Inneractive
○ OpenX Mobile
○ Unity Ads

17
18

https://www.cnbc.com/2015/11/09/forrester-mobile-predictions-for-2016.html
http://r-stylelab.com/company/blog/mobile-technologies/mobile-app-development-trends-for-2017-beyon

d
19
20

https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2017/02/current-trends-future-prospects-mobile-app-market/
http://www.businessofapps.com/top-app-monetization-platforms/

46

7. Products and services – Proof of Concept
This section will describe Proof of Concept (PoC) products based on the Privatix Network, as
well as the concept of the exit nodes software for Agents (owners of exit nodes).

7.1

Privatix.Agent - cross-platform software for exit nodes owners

This software is the primary component of the Privatix Network as it is the one that technically
and practically allows the Agents to join the network and start selling their internet bandwidth.

USE CASE
-

The user learns about the opportunity to earn by selling his unused broadband

-

The user downloads software for his operating system and launches it

-

The user sets the percentage of the traffic that he wishes to share and registers on the
network

-

After connecting to the network, the user turns into an Agent, his IP is recorded on the
network, and Clients can now connect to him

-

The user can see all accounting and stats in real time

-

After accumulating a balance in PRIX tokens, the user can sell them on the exchange
straight way or order withdrawal in a fiat currency. After that, we will sell their token at
the exchange and send the payment to the user in a fiat currency.

Alternative solution on the market: ​https://mysterium.network​ (concept only)

47

USER INTERFACE PROTOTYPE

Privatix.Agent will be developed on major platforms in order to create total operational system
coverage.

The user will also be able to choose if he wants to share his connection for torrenting or not;
there are many countries where torrenting is forbidden and fines may be imposed. We will
pre-set by default countries where this policy is applied, and disable the torrenting option in
advance.

48

7.2

Consumer VPN based on DPI-free VPN protocol

VPN means Virtual Private Network, a secure tunnel between two or more devices. VPN creates
a secure tunnel between your computer and the internet, allowing you to surf the web
anonymously from wherever you want. VPN also hide your IP address and changes it to another
one.

Classic VPN providers use dedicated servers around the world and standard VPN protocols like
Openvpn, pptp,l2tp,sstp, etc.

VPN shields your privacy, helps to avoid internet censorship and encrypts your transferred data.
The problem of centralized VPN is DPI-based blockers (utilized in China) and data server’s IP’s
that detect when you use a VPN.

VPNs based on the Privatix Network will allow you to surf between millions of exit nodes at the
best available speed and use advanced modified VPN connections that are undetectable by DPIs.
If you choose to be a peer in the network, you will be able to pay for it by sharing your traffic
with other users. If you get more traffic than you give you will have to pay the difference. Vice
versa the difference will be paid to you.

Classic VPN service
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

Decentralized VPN on blockchain
●
●
●
●
●

Focused on owner's profit ONLY
High profit margins
Huge marketing and data costs
No complete anonymity
Risk of data access by a third-party
Can be blocked by sophisticated DPI
The fact of using VPN is visible
Slow speed and unstable connection

●
●
●

49

Focus on network participants’ benefits
Fair prices without middleman margins
Low traffic expenses
Full anonymity
No private data and logging, no access for a
third-party
Can’t be blocked
The fact of using VPN is invisible
High speed and stable connection

Prototype of VPN client based on Privatix Network

50

7.3

Privatix.BOX - portable VPN router

A hardware device (basically an advanced DD-WRT router with pre-set configuration) which
allows:
● Connection to the Privatix Network as an Agent without the need to install special
software
● Shared VPN-protected connection via Wi-Fi

Members of the Privatix team have been using our prototypes of these devices, which we created
on the basis of popular DD-WRT routers, for a long time. This device is particularly useful for
travelers and acts as Agent and Client in the Privatix Network without the need to install any
software. We also plan to produce these devices in partnership with a suitable manufacturer.

USE CASE
-

A user goes on vacation with his family and stays in a hotel

-

The user connects Privatix.BOX to an unprotected Wi-Fi hotspot in the hotel

-

The user encrypts his connection and shares this safe connection with other family
members via Wi-Fi

51

-

If the user opted to be an Agent (share broadband), then most likely the user will get an
excellent and fast VPN at no cost at all.

Alternative centralized solution / product on the market: ​https://keezel.co​, ​https://betterspot.com
7.4

Advanced Proxy / Socks selling API platform

When the Privatix Network is established, it will contain hundreds of thousands, even millions,
of connected devices (Agents) and most of them will have residential IP-addresses.

For thousands of companies and businesses, residential proxies are a vital and also scarce
resource. Online retailers collecting comparative pricing information, developers testing their
web sites from any city in the world, large ad networks using proxies for ensuring the ads they
deliver are safe and compliant, cybersecurity firms checking sites are not malicious, and business
intelligence tools use thousands of proxies every day to parse search engines or competitors’
websites.

Our product will include an advanced API through which anyone will be able to buy the use of
proxies (traffic) from Privatix Network Agents in a convenient and easy way.

USE CASE
-

A large online retailer deals with the daily challenge of collecting data on positions and
prices on their competitors’ websites

-

Data parsing directly from their servers using datacenter IP addresses even in the rotation
does not work. The IPs are quickly detected by the competitor and blocked.

-

By connecting their software to the platform API, the retailer’s developers can buy an
unlimited number of proxies with residential IP addresses and completely mask their
activity

52

-

Rotating them and paying only for traffic means the retailer can solve their business
objectives in very simple and convenient way

7.5

Infrastructure for VPN providers

All classic VPN providers on the market today use the infrastructure of dedicated servers in
different data centers and purchase IPV4 IP address pools. This has a number of serious
shortcomings:

● Limited ability to buy new IPV4 IP addresses
● Expensive maintenance of server infrastructure, balancing, etc.
● High broadband costs
● Most IP addresses from the data center are easily detected and blocked, unlike the IP
addresses of home or small offices computers (residential IPs)

Replacing the infrastructure of dedicated servers with a convenient and affordable platform that
can be implemented in the product will transform this market, dramatically reduce the cost of
broadband for VPN providers, and improve their ability to stay unblockable with residential IP
addresses.

7.6

Decentralized CDN on blockchain

At Privatix Network, we do not want “merely” to develop awesome products, eliminate the
middleman and reduce prices, but to speed up the entire internet as well.

Classic CDN today is a very profitable business. However, content is becoming heavier, and
more expensive, because of the increasing use of HD videos, games and streaming content.

53

The average price for content delivery today is $0.05 - $0.30 per GB. We believe that by using
Agents’ broadband from Privatix Network will allow slashing prices 5 or even 10 fold The main
condition for this is a large number of Agents in the network.

This proposal is concept-based and can only be developed if the network grows big enough and
we have funds to invest in R&D.

7.7

Privatix.FAAS - anti-censorship solution for developers

Freedom as a Service (FaaS) - this is the driving force behind Privatix.FAAS. Our goal is to
create powerful SDKs that will eliminate the need for developers to worry whether their app will
be blocked in some country or not.

Privatix will provide a mobile SDK that will be easy to integrate into any mobile application or
software and give developers the ability to send all traffic via the Privatix Network’s secure
Agents’ proxies, ensuring users always have secure and private access to their applications and
are never blocked.
Alternative centralized solution / product on the market: ​https://www.anchorfree.com/sdk/
7.8

Privatix.Monetize - mobile apps and software monetization platform

Developers build applications used by millions of people and, in many cases they can’t monetize
it as they would like to do.

The most popular monetization methods are paid subscription and ad injection. Both methods
always lead to a huge outflow of users, and a decrease in virality as users do not like to pay to
watch ads.

54

Privatix.Monetize will offer developers an SDK that will help to monetize their apps without ads
or paid content using the following scheme. Users install the app, which registers in the Privatix
Network as an Agent and starts selling the users’ idle bandwidth while the developer gets the
payment for the traffic.

8. Legal disclaimers
THIS DOCUMENT DOES NOT CONSTITUTE AN OFFER TO SELL, AN INVITATION TO
INDUCE AN OFFER, OR A SOLICITATION OF AN OFFER TO ACQUIRE SECURITIES.

THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY AND DOES
NOT CONSTITUTE INVESTMENT ADVICE.

OUR WHITE PAPER MAY CONTAIN ‘FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS’ - THAT IS,
STATEMENTS RELATED TO FUTURE, NOT PAST, EVENTS. IN THIS CONTEXT,
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS OFTEN ADDRESS OUR EXPECTED FUTURE
BUSINESS

AND

ORGANIZATIONAL

PLANS,

THE

PERFORMANCE,

AND

DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATIX PLATFORM INTEGRATED WITH BLOCKCHAIN,
AND OFTEN CONTAIN WORDS SUCH AS 'EXPECT', 'ANTICIPATE', 'INTEND', 'PLAN',
'WILL', 'WOULD', 'ESTIMATE', 'FORECAST' OR 'TARGET'. SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS BY THEIR NATURE ADDRESS MATTERS THAT ARE, TO DIFFERENT
DEGREES, UNCERTAIN. WE CANNOT GUARANTEE THAT ANY FORWARD LOOKING
STATEMENTS, BACKTESTS OR EXPERIMENTS MADE BY US OR EXPECTED
RESULTS OF OPERATION OF THE PRIVATIX PLATFORM WILL CORRELATE WITH
THE ACTUAL FUTURE FACTS OR RESULTS.

55

THE SALE OF PRIX TOKENS CONSTITUTES THE SALE OF A LEGAL SOFTWARE
PRODUCT UNDER GIBRALTAR LAW. THIS PRODUCT SALE IS CONDUCTED BY
PRIVATIX TOKEN LIMITED, A GIBRALTAR LIMITED COMPANY, OPERATING
UNDER GIBRALTAR LAW. IT IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF EACH POTENTIAL
PURCHASER OF PRIX TOKENS TO DETERMINE IF THE PURCHASER CAN LEGALLY
PURCHASE PRIX TOKENS IN THE PURCHASER’S JURISDICTION AND WHETHER
THE PURCHASER CAN THEN RESELL THE PRIX TOKENS TO ANOTHER PURCHASER
IN ANY GIVEN JURISDICTION.

To be used if the White Paper and other documents will be available in multiple languages:

FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF OUR USERS, THE PRIVATIX WHITE PAPER, WEBSITE
AND OTHER RELATED DOCUMENTS ARE AVAILABLE IN A NUMBER OF
LANGUAGES. IN THE EVENT THERE IS ANY CONFLICT BETWEEN THE ENGLISH
LANGUAGE VERSION AND A FOREIGN LANGUAGE VERSION, THE ENGLISH
LANGUAGE VERSION SHALL GOVERN.

8.1

RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider and evaluate each of the following risk factors and all other
information contained in the Terms of Token Sale (the “Terms”) before deciding to participate in
the Privatix Token Sale (“Token Sale”). To the best of Privatix Token Ltd.’s (the “Company”)
knowledge and belief, all risk factors which are material to you in making an informed decision
to participate in the Token Sale have been set out below. If any of the following considerations,
uncertainties or material risks develops into actual events, the business, financial position and/or
results of operations of the Company and the maintenance and level of usage of the Privatix
platform and the Privatix Tokens (“PRIX”) could be materially and adversely affected. In such
cases, the trading price of PRIX Tokens (in the case where they are listed on a cryptocurrency

56

exchange) could decline due to any of these considerations, uncertainties or material risks, and
you may lose all or part of your PRIX Tokens.

RISKS RELATING TO PARTICIPATION IN THE TOKEN SALE

There is no prior market for PRIX Tokens and the Token Sale may not result in an active or
liquid market for the PRIX Tokens
Prior to the Token Sale, there has been no public market for the PRIX Tokens. Although the
Company will use reasonable endeavors to seek the approval for availability of the PRIX Tokens
for trading on a cryptocurrency exchange, there is no assurance that such approval will be
obtained. Furthermore, even if such approval is granted by a cryptocurrency exchange, there is
no assurance that an active or liquid trading market for the PRIX Tokens will develop or if
developed, be sustained after the PRIX Tokens have been made available for trading on such
cryptocurrency exchange. There is also no assurance that the market price of the PRIX Tokens
will not decline below the original purchase price (the “Purchase Price”). The Purchase Price
may not be indicative of the market price of the PRIX Tokens after they have been made
available for trading on a cryptocurrency exchange.
A PRIX Token is not a currency issued by any central bank or national, supra-national or
quasi-national organization, nor is it backed by any hard assets or other credit. The Company is
not responsible for nor does it pursue the circulation and trading of PRIX Tokens on the market.
Trading of PRIX Tokens will merely depend on the consensus on its value between the relevant
market participants, and no one is obliged to purchase any PRIX Token from any holder of the
PRIX Token, including the purchasers, nor does anyone guarantee the liquidity or market price
of PRIX Tokens to any extent at any time.
Furthermore, PRIX Tokens may not be resold to purchasers who are citizens or permanent
residents of, People’s Republic of China, Republic of Korea (including its territories and
possessions) or any other jurisdiction where the purchase of PRIX Tokens may be in violation of
applicable laws. Accordingly, the Company cannot ensure that there will be any demand or

57

market for PRIX Tokens, or that the Purchase Price is indicative of the market price of PRIX
Tokens after they have been made available for trading on a cryptocurrency exchange.
Future sales or issuance of the PRIX Tokens could materially and adversely affect the market
price of PRIX Tokens
Any future sale or issuance of the PRIX Tokens would increase the supply of PRIX Tokens in
the market and this may result in a downward price pressure on the PRIX Token. The sale or
distribution of a significant number of PRIX Tokens outside of the Token Sale (including but not
limited to the sales of PRIX Tokens undertaken after the completion of the initial token sale,
issuance of PRIX Tokens to persons other than purchasers for purposes of community and
employee initiatives, affiliate (or bounty) program development, academic research, education
and market expansion and issuance of PRIX Tokens as a reward to employees and/or users of the
Privatix platform), or the mere perception that such further sales or issuance may occur, could
adversely affect the trading price of the PRIX Tokens.
Negative publicity may materially and adversely affect the price of the PRIX Tokens
Negative publicity involving the Company, the Privatix platform, the PRIX Tokens or any of the
key personnel of the Company, may materially and adversely affect the market perception or
market price of the PRIX Tokens, whether or not it is justified.
We may not be able to pay any anticipated rewards in the future
There is no assurance that there will be any transaction volume such that you will receive any
rewards anticipated to be distributed to active users of the Privatix platform. Further, even in the
event there is substantial transaction volume and interactions among the users and the Privatix
platform, there is no assurance you personally will receive any part of the rewards. This is
because the ability of the Company to pay any reward to you will depend on the future results of
operations and the future business and financial condition of the Company and there is no
assurance of the future results of operations and the future business and financial condition of the
Company.
There is no assurance of any success of Privatix Platform or any Future Business Line
The value of, and demand for, the PRIX Tokens hinges heavily on the performance of the
Privatix platform. There is no assurance that the Privatix platform will gain traction after its

58

launch and achieve any commercial success. Although the Company has performed some testing,
including QA-testing of the Privatix platform with relatively positive results, the Privatix
platform has not been fully developed and finalized and is subject to further changes, updates
and adjustments prior to its launch. Such changes may result in unexpected and unforeseen
effects on its projected appeal to users, possibly due to the failure to meet users’ preconceived
expectations based on the beta version, and hence impact its success. Limited usage of the
Privatix platform and potential lack of trust for its crowdsourced predictive accuracy would
impact the public demand for the PRIX Tokens and correspondingly the trading price of the
PRIX Tokens.
The trading price of the PRIX Tokens may fluctuate following the Token Generation Event
The prices of cryptographic tokens in general tend to be relatively volatile, and can fluctuate
significantly over short periods of time. The demand for, and corresponding the market price of,
the PRIX Tokens may fluctuate significantly and rapidly in response to, among others, the
following factors, some of which are beyond the control of the Company:
(a) new technical innovations;
(b) analysts’ speculations, recommendations, perceptions or estimates of the PRIX Token’s
market price or the Company’s financial and business performance;
(c) changes in market valuations and token prices of entities with businesses similar to that of the
Company that may be listed on the same cryptocurrency exchanges as the PRIX Tokens;
(d) announcements by the Company of significant events, for example partnerships,
sponsorships, new product developments;
(e) fluctuations in market prices and trading volume of cryptocurrencies on cryptocurrency
exchanges;
(f) additions or departures of key personnel of the Company;
(h) success or failure of the Company’s management in implementing business, development and
growth strategies;
(i) changes in conditions affecting the blockchain or sport technology industry, the general
economic conditions or market sentiments, or other events or factors.
The funds raised in the Token Sale are exposed to risks of theft

59

Further, upon receipt of the funds, the Company will make every effort to ensure that the funds
received will be securely held through the implementation of security measures. Notwithstanding
such security measures, there is no assurance that there will be no theft of the cryptocurrencies as
a result of hacks, sophisticated cyber-attacks, distributed denials of service or errors,
vulnerabilities or defects on the Token Sale website, in the smart contract(s), if used, on which
the escrow wallet and the Token Sale may rely, on the Ethereum or any other blockchain, or
otherwise. Such events may include, for example, flaws in programming or source code leading
to exploitation or abuse thereof. In such event, even if the Token Sale is completed, the
Company may not be able to receive the cryptocurrencies raised and may not be able to use such
funds for the development of the Privatix platform and/or for launching the Privatix platform,
including but not limited to the structuring and through developing of the Privatix peer-to-peer
bandwidth marketplace. In such case, the launch of the Privatix platform might be temporarily or
permanently curtailed. As such, distributed PRIX Tokens may hold little worth or value, and this
would impact its trading price.

RISKS RELATING TO PRIVATIX TOKEN LIMITED.
The Privatix platform is developed, operated and maintained by Privatix Token Limited. Any
events or circumstances which adversely affect Privatix Token Limited or any of its successor
operating entities (collectively referred to herein as “Privatix Token Limited”) may have a
corresponding adverse effect on the Privatix platform. Such adverse effects would
correspondingly have an impact on the utility, liquidity, and the trading price of the PRIX
Tokens.
Privatix Token Limited may be materially and adversely affected if it fails to effectively manage
its operations as its business develops and evolves, which would have a direct impact on its
ability to maintain the Privatix platform. The sport media technology and cryptocurrency
industries, and the markets in which Privatix Token Limited competes have grown rapidly over
the past years and continue to evolve in response to new technological advances, changing
business models and other factors. As a result of this constantly changing environment, Privatix
Token Limited may face operational difficulties in adjusting to the changes, and the

60

sustainability of Privatix Token Limited will depend on its ability to manage its operations and
ensure that it hires qualified and competent employees, and provides proper training for its
personnel. As its business evolves, Privatix Token Limited must also expand and adapt its
operational infrastructure. Privatix Token Limited’s business relies on its blockchain-based
software systems, cryptocurrency wallets or other related token storage mechanisms, blockchain
technology and smart contract technology, if used, and on machine learning and artificial
intelligence platforms. All of these systems and tools represent complex, costly, and rapidly
changing technical infrastructure. In order to demonstrate continued ability to effectively manage
technical support infrastructure for the Privatix platform, Privatix Token Limited will need to
continue to upgrade and improve its data systems and other operational systems, procedures and
controls. These upgrades and improvements will require a dedication of resources, are likely to
be complex and increasingly rely on hosted computer services from third parties that Privatix
Token Limited does not control. If Privatix Token Limited is unable to adapt its systems and
organization in a timely, efficient and cost-effective manner to accommodate changing
circumstances, its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely
affected. If the third parties whom Privatix Token Limited relies on are subject to a security
breach or otherwise suffer disruptions that impact the services Privatix Token Limited uses, the
integrity and availability of its internal information could be compromised, which may
consequently cause the loss of confidential or proprietary information, and economic loss. The
loss of financial, labor or other resources, and any other adverse effect on Privatix Token
Limited’s business, financial condition and operations, would have a direct adverse effect on
Privatix Token Limited’s ability to maintain the Privatix platform. Any adverse effects affecting
Privatix Token Limited’s business or technology are likely to also adversely impact the utility,
liquidity, and trading price of the PRIX Tokens.
Privatix Token Limited may experience system failures, unplanned interruptions in its network
or services, hardware or software defects, security breaches or other causes that could adversely
affect Privatix Token Limited’s infrastructure network, and/or the Privatix platform.
Privatix Token Limited is not able to anticipate when there would be occurrences of hacks,
cyber- attacks, distributed denials of service or errors, vulnerabilities or defects in the Privatix

61

platform, in the smart contracts, if used, or on the Ethereum or any other blockchain technology.
Such events may include, for example, flaws in programming or source code leading to
exploitation or abuse thereof. Privatix Token Limited may not be able to detect such hacks,
cyber-attacks, distributed denials of service errors vulnerabilities or defects in a timely manner,
and may not have sufficient resources to efficiently cope with multiple service incidents
happening simultaneously or in rapid succession.
Privatix Token Limited’s network or services, which would include the Privatix platform, could
be disrupted by numerous events, including natural disasters, equipment breakdown, network
connectivity downtime, power losses, or even intentional disruptions of its services, such as
disruptions caused by software viruses or attacks by unauthorized users, some of which are
beyond Privatix Token Limited’s control. Although Privatix Token Limited has taken steps
against malicious attacks on its platform or its infrastructure, which are critical for the
maintenance of the Privatix platform, there can be no assurance that cyber-attacks, such as
distributed denials of service, will not be attempted in the future, that Company’s enhanced
security measures will be effective. Privatix Token Limited may be prone to attacks on its
infrastructure intended to steal information about its technology, financial data or user
information or take other actions that would be damaging to the Company and/or holders of the
PRIX Tokens. Any significant breach of the Company’s security measures or other disruptions
resulting in a compromise of the usability, stability and security of the Privatix platform may
adversely affect the utility, liquidity and/or trading price of the PRIX Tokens.
We are dependent in part on the location and data center facilities of third parties
Privatix Token Limited’s current infrastructure network is in part established through servers
which it owns and houses at the location facilities of third parties, and servers that it rents at data
center facilities of third parties. If the Company is unable to renew its data facility lease on
commercially reasonable terms or at all, Privatix Token Limited may be required to transfer its
servers to a new data center facility, and may incur significant costs and possible service
interruption in connection with the relocation. These facilities are also vulnerable to damage or
interruption from, among others, natural disasters, arson, terrorist attacks, power losses, and
telecommunication failures. Additionally, the third party providers of such facilities may suffer a

62

breach of security as a result of third party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and
a third party may obtain unauthorized access to the data in such servers. As techniques used to
obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not
recognized until launched against a target, Privatix Token Limited and the providers of such
facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive
measures. Any such security breaches or damages which occur which impact upon the
Company’s infrastructure network and/or the Privatix platform may adversely impact the utility,
liquidity, and/or trading price of the PRIX Tokens.
General global market and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on Privatix Token
Limited operating performance, results of operations and cash flows
Privatix Token Limited has been and could continue to be affected by general global economic
and market conditions. Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time,
contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the information technology
industry at large. Weakness in the economy could have a negative effect on the Company’s
business, operations and financial condition, including decreases in revenue and operating cash
flows, and inability to attract future equity and/or debt financing on commercially reasonable
terms. Additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, Privatix Token Limited may
experience the negative effects of a slowdown in trading and usage of the Privatix platform.
Suppliers on which Privatix Token Limited relies for servers, bandwidth, location and other
services could also be negatively impacted by economic conditions that, in turn, could have a
negative impact on the Company’s operations or expenses. There can be no assurance, therefore,
that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring
recession will not have a significant adverse impact on Privatix Token Limited’s business,
financial condition and results of operations and hence the Privatix platform. Any such
circumstances would then correspondingly negatively impact the utility, liquidity, and/or trading
price of the PRIX Tokens.
The Company or the PRIX Tokens may be affected by newly implemented regulations
Cryptocurrency trading and token sales are generally unregulated worldwide, but numerous
regulatory authorities across jurisdictions have been outspoken about considering the

63

implementation of regulatory regimes which govern cryptocurrency or cryptocurrency markets.
The Company or the PRIX Tokens may be affected by newly implemented regulations relating
to cryptocurrencies or cryptocurrency markets, including having to take measures to comply with
such regulations, or having to deal with queries, notices, requests or enforcement actions by
regulatory authorities, which may come at a substantial cost and may also require substantial
modifications to the Privatix platform. This may impact the appeal of the Privatix platform for
users and result in decreased usage of the Privatix platform and the PRIX Tokens. Further,
should the costs (financial or otherwise) of complying with such newly implemented regulations
exceed a certain threshold, maintaining the Privatix platform may no longer be commercially
viable and the Company may opt to discontinue the Privatix platform and/or the PRIX Tokens.
Further, it is difficult to predict how or whether governments or regulatory authorities may
implement any changes to laws and regulations affecting distributed ledger technology and its
applications, including the Privatix platform and the PRIX Tokens. Privatix Token Limited may
also have to cease operations in a jurisdiction that makes it illegal to operate in such jurisdiction,
or make it commercially unviable or undesirable to obtain the necessary regulatory approval(s)
or license(s) to operate in such jurisdiction. In scenarios such as the foregoing, the utility,
liquidating, and/or trading price of PRIX Tokens will be adversely affected or PRIX Tokens may
cease to be traded.
There may be unanticipated risks arising from the PRIX Tokens
Cryptographic tokens such as the PRIX Tokens are a relatively new and dynamic technology. In
addition to the risks included in the above discussion of Risk Factors, there are other risks
associated with your purchase, holding and use of the PRIX Tokens, including those that Privatix
Token Limited cannot anticipate. Such risks may further appear as unanticipated variations or
combinations of the risks discussed above.

64

