PRESSone
A Blockchain-based digital content
trading and distribution network

Version:1.0.2
Craft @ February 21, 2019
info@press.one

Synopsis

4

Background & Problems

5

Opportunities and Solutions

8

Technology & Architecture

10

Architecture Design

10

DApps

11

API

11

Content and storage

12

Authentication using Public Key Cryptography (for DApp development)

12

PRS Contracts

12

Transaction messages

13

Verification nodes

13

PRS Network

13

Transactions and contracts

14

Contract template

16

Content signatures

17

Proof of identity

17

Copyright ownership confirmation and declaration

18

Content distribution

19

DApps in PRS Network

20

DApps by PRS Team

20

PRESS.one Website
Mobile App

20

20

3rd Party DApps

PRS Ecosystem

21

22

Summary

22

Stakeholders

23

How To Engage

24

2

Setting Up Your Fund

Potential scenarios for the self-funded funds:
Direct management Funds founded

PRS Token

25

26
26

27

Token Consumption

27

Token Collateral

27

Token Distribution

28

Token in circulation

29

How to Acquire PRS Tokens

29

TEAM

30

Li Xiaolai, CEO

30

Huo Ju, CTO

30

Xi Qiao, COO & Product director

31

3

Synopsis
PRESSone’s1 aim is to build a Blockchain-based digital content trading and distribution
network.
●

Taking advantage of digital signature info and transaction data stored unchangeably
on-chain, highly customizable light contracts, and digital currency and distributed
storage networks, PRESSone expects to drive the revolution of the content trading
model and rebuild the production, authorization, distribution, and consumption of
the digital content industry.

●

It will reshape the roles and relationships between content producers/licensors and
consumers/licensees by exploring and leveraging new trust relationships,
organizational structures, and models of driving participants’ motivation.

●

It will build an application layer protocol (the PRS protocol) that spans multiple
consensus systems by combining resources including multiple public chains,
decentralized storage or centralized cloud storage. The decentralized open
architecture allows everyone to create their own DApps and content based on our
data and our infrastructure to explore innovative business models in a transparent,
efficient, and equal way.

The value proposition of PRESSone is as follows:
● Solve the problem of copyright ownership confirmation and declaration for
content producers, by taking advantage of storing the identity proof of the author
and the digital signature of the content they published as unchangeable data on
chain.
●

Create and settle transactions using smart contracts that can be coded and executed
automatically. Give back the pricing power to content producers (licensors), while
lowering the cost of content trading and licensing for consumers (licensees).

1

( “PRS project”, “PRS network”, “PRS team”, “we”, ”the project team”)

4

●

Offer flexible and extensible contract templates that can drive the emergence of
innovative business models as well as new business opportunities in the digital
content industry. For example, general users without sufficient content production
ability can participate in the process of value distribution by participating in the
spread, resale, adaptation, mining and compiling of others’ content, and share
income with the original author. This creates a win-win environment for digital
content trading and distribution, and promotes the transmission of creativity.

Background & Problems
The internet we have been using is constructed based on, essentially, digital content.
When we use the Internet, we are either creating or consuming digital content: reading/
writing articles, editing/watching videos, and “liking” our friend’s holiday photos. We are
the creators and consumers of digital content.
Regarding openness, equality and facilitating information flow, the Internet has played
positive roles since the beginning. However, with the soaring aggregation of capital, data,
and traffic, the Internet is moving farther and farther from its original vision2. Nowadays,
there are primarily two business models of the Internet: the dominant “free+advertising”
model, and the “paywall” model, such as e-commerce, subscription and Pay-As-You-Use,
which has been adopted by a minority.
The “free+advertising” model, which the Internet had been proud of for generating
significant scale effect, is IN NO WAY free for the general user. In fact, it has cost them so
much. Data generated from user behaviour has been controlled by commercial
corporations, becoming the vital commodity and raw material resource of Internet giants,
and being used to“extract an inordinate share of value” and“control more and acquire
more power”3 . During the process, the closing off and concentration of power will be
further aggravated, and it will also lead to hidden and continuous infringement of the
values of personal privacy and autonomy.
Brooker, K.(2018,August). 'I was devastated': Tim Berners-Lee, the man who created the World Wide Web,
has some regrets. Retrieved from https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2018/07/the-man-who-created-the-worldwide-web-has-some-regrets
2

Tapscott, D., & Tapscott, A. (2016). Blockchain revolution: how the technology behind bitcoin is changing money, business,
and the world. Penguin.
3

5

Commercial and economic activities based on the paywall model are also facing problems
caused by this closing off and excessive concentration. Regarding digital content, the
centralization of web traffic, the monopolization of distribution channels, and exorbitant
transaction costs are forcing creators to “assign their intellectual property rights to what
essentially are large rights management operations” , and gradually lose control over their
own creation and its property rights4. Meanwhile, the rewards obtained are not
sufficiently reasonable and fair.
Why do the creators have to give up their “right of control”? Why are trading activities
and economic value transfer related to digital content still subject to many limitations and
difficulties, while the creation and acquisition of digital content have become easier?
Multiple reasons cause the current situation:
●

Centralized organizations such as publishing houses, major content platforms, and
online content retailers have been dominating the method of sale, place of purchase,
and determination of price. Creators have little influence on decisions regarding sales
to protect their own benefits.

●

Other than the centralized channels, most content and licensing on the Internet have
no marked price. You have to find a way to contact the copyright owner for the price
and payment method for licensing or purchasing. And numerous efforts and a huge
amount of time need to be put into signing, executing, and verifying the contracts for
all the parties involved.

●

The certification, appeal, and arbitration of copyright rely on an authoritative thirdparty intermediary. It is cumbersome for a single individual to manage, license, or
trade his or her own creation’s copyright.

●

The difficulties of tracing the history of copyright licensing has made it difficult for
licensees to know who to ask for approval to use the content. Especially after content
has been re-posted, created or adapted, it is harder for people to judge “who should I
contact to request or purchase the license authorization?”.

The monopoly and closed situation exist during the process of content ownership
confirmation and content distribution. This has not only caused content owners to lose

Tapscott, D., & Tapscott, A. (2016). Blockchain revolution: how the technology behind bitcoin is changing money, business,
and the world. Penguin.
4

6

control and revenue, but also suppressed the potential growth of the content transaction
market, as the development of various profitable business approaches has been inhibited.
For instance, nowadays, due to the middlemen’s monopoly, there is a market trend that
small transactions of content are more difficult to achieve than large transactions,
because platform vendors have to spend a lot of time and effort in the process of
identifying copyright and signing agency agreements with authors. With the same cost, it
is reasonable for vendors to depend on selling content with higher pricing to gain more
profit. This leads to the situation that finding a sales channel for a short article is much
harder than for a book, or selling a 20-second video clip is more difficult than selling a
full-length movie. But actually, the small transactions of content could be in higher
demand and be used in higher frequency. If we can fulfill the needs of supply and demand
for both parties in some faster, easier, and cheaper way, the resultant cumulative effect
would be magnificent.
For another example, it is difficult for creators to be able to determine the pricing and
method of trading flexibly according to their own requirements when they sell or
distribute their creation through an intermediary, such as：
●

Supporting split pricing: allowing a customer to only pay for a single chapter of a
book or a few bars in a song.

●

Trading certain types of content for which it is difficult to determine usage and price,
e.g., a piece of code or a set of typefaces.

●

Allowing low-frequency or non-professional creators to have a low-maintenance
model for selling content (e.g., amateur photographers or illustrators).

●

...

Once the needs for micro-transactions and flexible transactions are satisfied, content
creators will be more willing to participate, there will be more purchasing options for
consumers to choose from, and more and more content creators will be driven by the
opportunity for higher income.
If the barriers of copyright licensing and trading can be lowered, copyright owners and
licensees will share revenue reasonably based their effort and contribution in a
transparent and flexible way, thereby decreasing piracy and infringement behaviours.

7

“Co-creating with consumers is usually a more sustainable business model than suing
them.”5
In conclusion, exorbitant transaction costs and monopolistic distribution channels have
been damaging the growth of the ecosystem of content creation, suppressing diversity
and the innovation of new business models. The industry of digital content needs to
redefine and rebuild new ways of content production, distribution, consumption, and
rights authorization. This will enable creators to have better incentives and rewards, and
enable creativity to be transmitted more effectively.

Opportunities and Solutions
Emerging blockchain technologies are expected to “revolutionize industry and commerce
and drive economic change on a global scale”6 , and also open a whole new world of
opportunities for solving the aforementioned problems. Blockchain “will not create a new
standard for how artists get compensated. Instead, it will liberate them to choose and
customize an infinite array of solutions that work for their specific needs and beliefs”5 .
And it will “transfer economic value with lower cost”7 and achieve flexible income
allocation.
First of all, the characteristics of “security, immutability, and transparency” of the
blockchain, and its “ability to cut out the middleman” 6 is expected to bring trustworthy
and transparent solutions to the digital content industry. Smart contracts use code to
clearly define both parties’ accountability and obligation and how is the value allocated.
All the contract execution records are saved in the blockchain without being able to be
tampered with or retrieved. The transfer process of copyright’s economic value is
transparent to all the stakeholders, which guarantees the safety and credibility of
transactions and protects all the participants’ access to fair value allocation based on the
promises in the contract. Meanwhile, malicious breaches of contract are more easily
discovered, and it is easier to collect the relevant evidence.

Tapscott, D., & Tapscott, A. (2016). Blockchain revolution: how the technology behind bitcoin is changing money, business,
and the world. Penguin.
5

6

Underwood, S. (2016). Blockchain beyond bitcoin. Communications of the ACM, 59(11), 15-17.

7

Imada, Takatoshi. (2017). ブロックチェーン革命 分散自律型社会の出現. 日本経済新聞出版社.

8

Secondly, smart contracts and Ricardian Contracts are used to “satisfy common
contractual conditions, minimize exceptions… and the need for trusted intermediaries”.8
Content creators (licensors) can tie a PRS contract to their creations. Consumers
(licensees) can execute the contract to automatically calculate for the price to pay and
settle the payment. Meanwhile, saving the contract on the blockchain would make it
effortless to trace the existence of the contract related to a certain piece of content and
verify if the contract has been executed correctly. This would remarkably lower the cost of
agreement signing and execution in traditional way, thus improve the efficiency of
content trading and distribution.
Moreover, the core fundamental of blockchain is a distributed ledger. Computer code
could be stored and executed on the chain. Code automatically executes when certain
conditions have been met, and the distributed ledger records all transactions forever. The
transaction records on the blockchain are secured through cryptography and
programming. It's so difficult to build a low-cost, high-efficiency and decentralization
automation transactions system on fiat currencies that are not programmable money.9
Based on the consensus and trust mechanism supported by blockchains, coupled with the
application of smart contracts and cryptocurrency, content trading can be disintermediated as never before, making possible “small transactions” and “flexible
transactions” that were previously difficult to achieve. Because of the reshaping of the
revenue share model between content producers and consumers, licensors and licensees
will be more inclined to cooperate in a mutually beneficial way to achieve value sharing
and amplification. The motive of malicious behaviours such as piracy and infringement
will be lower with the increased risk of doing evil. In the long run, more positive and
constructive changes will emerge, pushing forward innovation in content creation models
and business models, and finally facilitating the booming industry of digital content.

Szabo, N. (1997). The idea of smart contracts. Retrieved from http://szabo. best. vwh. net/smart_contracts_idea. Html.
[https://perma.cc/V6AZ-7V8W]
8

9

Swan, M. (2015). Blockchain: Blueprint for a new economy. " O'Reilly Media, Inc.".

9

Technology & Architecture
Architecture Design

The architecture of PRS protocol

PRS is an application layer protocol built on top of several different consensus
mechanisms. The main purpose of the PRS network is to build a decentralized digital
content distribution system. The PRS protocol provides developers with the ability to
create their own decentralized apps that connect various technologies, for example,
blockchains, consensus, P2P and cloud storage. Dapps can keep private data off-chain,
and store their public data with the PRS network. Everyone in the ecosystem will benefit
from the shared data. Users and developers can write their business logic and verify
transactions by PRSC DSL to ensure reliability of these transactions.

10

The PRS network connects blockchains with different consensus mechanisms, among
which the major components of the system are the MIXIN network10 (ABFT consensus
DAG) and the PRS chain (BFT-DPoS). The system uses the MIXIN network as a
decentralized ledger to process all asset transactions, and the PRS chain takes
responsibility for verifying smart contracts and storing transaction-related metadata.
Content storage is not a default service of the PRS network, so any storage service,
including centralized cloud and P2P services, can be used to provide content to end users.
On some occasions, even mesh networks and offline storage can become content
providers.
Other blockchains or even centralized banks can also integrate with the PRS network
through gateways.

DApps
In the PRS framework, a DApp directly interacts with end users. Multiple DApps can
coordinate to serve requests from users. For examples, the website and mobile app for
PRESS.one are DApps.
Each DApp may contain both private and public data. The public data is stored on
blockchain and compatible with the PRS data protocol. On the other hand, private data
such as sensitive and personal information could be stored off-chain. The off-chain
private data needed by DApps, however, is not appropriate for sharing with others or
storing on-chain, and should therefore be kept secure by DApp developers and
maintainers.

API
Dapp developers needn't to implement the protocol from the ground up; they can use the
PRESSone API service to interact with nodes. APIs allow us to hide the complexity of
low-level blockchain systems and expose the functionality in a friendly way.

10

Feng, X. (2018, July 01). Mixin Network Draft. Retrieved from https://mixin.one/assets/Mixin-Draft-2018-07-01.pdf

11

Content and storage
Hashes of media and text files are stored in the blockchain instead of original copies of
files. The PRS protocol uses storage location descriptors to define the actual locations of
files and resources.
This flexible architecture allows users to adopt various storage methods, including both
centralized cloud storage and distributed storage solutions such as BitTorrent magnet
links and IPFS.

Authentication using Public Key Cryptography (for DApp development)
Users can create a new key pair and grant permissions to a third-party DApp using the
key pair to create signatures and execute contracts.
During the registration process on PRESS.one, a user creates the first key pair as the root
key pair. The user can use his or her root private keys for signing transactions to create
and revoke third-party key pairs.
PRESSone uses digital certificates to help users verify the identity of DApps and prevent
phishing and other security threats. PRESSone provides a Certificate Authority to issue
the digital certificates for DApp developers. Issuing Certificate Authorities is not a
privilege of PRESSone, and any originator or DAO can become a Certificate Authority
based on their reputation.

PRS Contracts
The PRS contract is one of the most essential elements of the PRS ecosystem. The PRS
protocol will support smart contracts and Ricardian contract that are defined by an easyto-understand descriptive language that resembles natural language, and contracts will be
executed to make trading effective. PRS Contract interpreter can interpret and execute
the code written by PRSC DSL (Domain-specific language).
Prices can depend on the requirements of the order and are calculated during the contract
code execution. A contract instance containing a MIXIN network snapshot_id is created
after the success of the user payment, and it must be verified by DPOS nodes. Then the

12

nodes will sign a block, and after more than half of the nodes have signed the block it is
deemed irreversible.
The MIXIN network snapshot_id is the payment receipt.
A contract can be deemed "digital content" and can be traded on the PRS network. This
will help developers and lawyers to create smart contracts with higher reliability, and
reduce security risks.
Following the PRS protocol, contracts can be updated or stopped. All transactions before
the update/stop time remain effective.

Transaction messages
A transaction is a procedure that a client follows in the PRS protocol to publish its
requests and write to the network. There are several types of transaction messages that
the PRS protocol defines, for example, the identity verification message, digital content
distribution message, and trading confirmation message. A contract instance with terms
and conditions is attached to a transaction message, and the contract execution will make
it take effect.

Verification nodes
The PRS validator nodes take responsibility for validating transaction messages and
contract execution. The nodes sign the blocks with results after validations return
successfully.
PRS Token holders can stake tokens and vote for validator candidates, and the voting
service runs on the MIXIN Network. Malicious validator nodes will be voted out and
replaced by other candidates.

PRS Network
The vision of PRESSone is to create a blockchain-based digital content transaction and
distribution network. The PRS team designed an innovative product framework to
construct the network by leveraging the features of the blockchain (Decentralization,

13

Disintermediation, Distributed Trust, Immutability, and Programmability)11 , and will
continue to perfect the framework with the changing complexity and scope of the project.
The core designs include:
● Creating and executing transactions with light smart contracts (PRS contracts) to
reduce transaction costs and increase transaction efficiency
● Solving the problem of copyright ownership declaration by storing users’ id proof
+ content digital signature + transaction history (record of licensing
authorization) as unchangeable data on the chain
● Reforming digital content distribution using a decentralized architecture, a
reciprocal and symbiotic ecosystem, and a new way to redistribute revenue
between producers/licensors and consumers/licensees.
● ......
Framework of PRS Network

Transactions and contracts
The PRS network supports transactions of any type of digital content, whether an article,
a picture, a movie, or an encyclopedia. Any file can be used to create a digital signature
and be used as a tradable object, as long as a unique hash value can be produced by the
cryptographic algorithm from the file.
The creation and execution of transactions relies on the programmable light contract, an
easy-to-understand descriptive programming language that resembles natural language,
to set up the contract and define how it runs.
After the content producer creates a digital content signature for their work, they can bind
a contract to the signed content and set one or more sets of trading and pricing
conditions. Similar to the smart contract, the PRS contract essentially is a piece of
programming code that can be executed. A typical example of executing the contract is a
content transaction: a buyer who wants to purchase a particular content only needs to

!
11
Iansiti, M., & Lakhani, K. R. (2017). The truth about blockchain. Harvard Business Review, 95(1), 118-127.

14

quote the signature of the content associated with the contract to trigger the included
operating conditions. The total amount needed to pay will be calculated automatically,
and the execution of the transaction and billing can be done automatically in real time.
This kind of transaction with smart contracts is irreversible, with trackable trading
records. This can reduce disputes caused by malicious or unexpected behaviour, and
reduce costs in term of contracting, arbitration, execution, and verification. Content
producers are no longer constrained by the various conditions of the traditional model,
and no longer need to rely on intermediary platforms or copyright agencies to manage
their transactions.

15

The range of transactions supported by the contract is immensely diverse, such as Payfor-Reading, Pay-for-subscriptions, licensing for adaptations or translations, licensing for
re-post or resale, licensing compiling or publications, etc. The setting of trading
conditions is also extremely flexible. For example, license grants, permitted uses,
prohibited uses, validity periods, and termination conditions of a licence can be clearly
agreed in the contract, restricting the behaviour of both parties to the transaction (an
example: the author of a column with paid subscription contract must update at least 10
pieces monthly for his/her subscribers).
The PRS protocol also supports the application of multiple contracts in combination,
thereby enabling more innovative models to emerge during the production, sale, and
distribution of content. For example, re-posting, sharing, content mining, listicle
producing or review writing can be regarded as “distributing” behaviours, which allow
revenue sharing with the original author. The co-creators who adapt or translate a work
also can develop a new type of cooperative relationship with the original author under the
innovative licensing model. Both parties can earn income fairly and transparently
according to their contribution during creation and production.

Contract template
Based on the PRS contract, transaction creators with coding ability can design a contract
based on their own needs. For those who don't know how to program, PRESSone offers a
contract template store. A “contract template” is a set of contract codes that have been
pre-written, such as "pay-for-view", "authorized translation with an agreed revenue split
for translated work" are two types of contract templates commonly used. In the store,
PRESSone users can purchase a variety of professionally designed, secure, and featurerich templates for direct application. They can create and set up the contract by simply
modifying the parameters in the template, rather than coding from scratch by themselves.
In the PRS digital content trading network, the “contract template” is also a type of digital
content commodity, which could attract developers and legal professionals to participate
to develop a variety of contract templates for sale or offer customized contract services.
Any type of innovative business model of content trading has to be linked to the
invention of a new PRS contract template design. By designing, coding, or combining
multiple execution conditions in contracts, a broader pattern of innovation in terms of

16

trading context, pricing models, and collaboration + income sharing models are allowed
to emerge in the PRS network.

Content signatures
The transaction objects in PRS network are the content signatures. To create a contract
for a piece of content, you must first create a content signature declaring yourself as the
original author or copyright agent of the content. The creation of the signature requires
the user's private key. The successfully signed signature information will be saved as undeleted data on the blockchain, which appears as a long character string consisting of the
"the user address of the creator" and the "hash value of snapshot of the content file
signed", supporting offline verification.
The file types that could be signed include text, images, video, audio, pdf, and more. Users
can create a content signature for a single file or a group of files. Iterations of a created
content signature on the chain will also be supported in the future.
When you view a digital content signature, you can find out who the signature creator is
(viewing the associated proof of identity), the timestamp of the signature created, the
hash value calculated from the snapshot when the file was signed, the associated PRS
contract; the version history of the signature, and so on.
The metadata of a content signature is transparently stored on the blockchain, but the
originally signed file is probably off the chain. The terms of the contract will explain how
or where to acquire the original file (or automatically fetch the original file). DApps can
choose how original files are stored, which part of data is stored privately off chain, and
which part is stored as public data on the chain.

Proof of identity
In general, selling digital content requires the transaction creator to sell using their real
name, as it involves legal issues such as the validity of an agreement or tax issues. But
considering privacy and avoiding centralization, true real-name systems are difficult to
implement on Blockchain networks where data is completely transparent. The PRS
protocol solves this problem by adopting support for multiple types of identity proof.

17

The protocol for identity proof in PRESSone consists of a proof record stored on the chain
and associated social network information. To tie a social profile with the user's
corresponding key pair, the user needs to get the ID proof URL by posting on the social
network a specified proof information signed with their private key, then sign the URL
with the same private key and store it on the chain. The more social profiles a key pair is
tied to, the easier it is to judge its authenticity. Considering that some social networks
require users to register with their real-name, PRS indirectly completes real-name
authentication in this simple way.
In addition to the proof of social network identity, the content producer can also prove
himself or herself as the owner or account controller by publishing the ID proof URL on a
sites such as a personal blog or Medium.
The PRS protocol will also support "endorsement between users" as another type of
identity proof.
On top of the above identification methods, in some cases, requirement to confirm users’
real name can be fulfilled by installing a plugin providing real-name authentication
services based on the PRS protocol as a third-party DApp.

Copyright ownership confirmation and declaration
PRESS.one does not provide a centralized copyright certification, review, and arbitration
mechanism. However, the content producer is required to tie to their identity at least one
of the ID methods above to publish a content signature using that identity, and it is
necessary to link at least one real-name ID proof to set up a contract for trading. Even if
someone succeeded in signing a work copyrighted by others’, and even if they received
revenue from selling it through the PRS network, the evidence of the misappropriation of
others’ work and the record of sales revenues are permanently stored on the chain. It is
impossible to remove traces of piracy and infringement or hide illegal income. This
evidence can help the original author claim their rights through legal means.
Meanwhile, in the PRS network, DApps operated by third-party copyright certification
agencies could be connected and used when required. These third-party copyright
certification DApps also need to build a reputation on the blockchain and safeguard their
reputation. Similar to personal users, for a certification agencies or a DApp, once a wrong
authentication or malicious behaviour occurs, the evidence also cannot be eliminated.

18

Finally, in the planning of PRESS.one, there is no place for a centralized content
distribution mechanism. Ideally, content producers have accumulated a certain amount
of readers and fans on various social networks or channels, so that they can set up
contracts to create deals on PRS, and then promote them to their readers or subscribers,
who will return to PRESS.one for content or license purchasing. At the same time, an
infringer who impersonates the copyright owner will have no such reputation on SNS or
other channels. Without enough traffic and income acquired in a short run, they possibly
have little motives for impersonation or other malicious behaviour on PRESSone.

Content distribution
PRESSone hopes to solve problems related to the sourcing and distribution channels of
content by introducing several diverse DApps or combinations of DApps. As a
Blockchain-based digital content trading and distribution network, we have no intention
to be the control centre of traffic or a monopolist, because “any undue centralization
could result in information asymmetry”, and “possibly using centralized power to damage
participants” and “other’s interests in this market” .12 Such a model also could avoid headto-head competition too early from the industry tycoons who operate in a traditional
centralized model and see user traffic as their core asset.
Furthermore, there are numerous drawbacks of distributing generic types of content in a
centralized way. The more reasonable way is to make recommendations, guide traffic, and
spread content targeted at users’ attributes, requirements, and usage scenarios.
Based on the open design of an application layer protocol, powerful, easy-to-use
fundamental services, and a symbiotic and mutually beneficial ecosystem, PRESSone
allows various platform and services to integrate with the PRS network as distribution
channels. For example, digital content publishing platforms, various targeted content
trading markets, digital content co-creation platforms, and self-publishing service
providers. These services and applications can connect users with different interests in
different fields to form a huge market with great diversity and liquidity, while at the same
time meeting users’ needs in terms of diversity of content requirements as well as
differences in consumption motivation or purchasing behaviour.

12

Chang, J., Han, F., & etc.. (2016). 区块链：从数字货币到信⽤用社会.中信出版社.

19

In addition, as mentioned earlier, the trust and consensus brought by blockchain, coupled
with the application of smart contracts and digital currency, can protect all participants
by achieving fair value distribution according to the commitments in PRS contracts. All
participants will be endowed with fresh impetus during the distribution of content. This
will reshape the role and relationship of content producers, spreaders, and consumers.
Due to changes in the income allocation model, each role will be more willing to
collaborate and benefit, actively participating in every stage of content production and
distribution, in order to share the value-added gains brought by the accelerated
circulation of content and facilitation of transactions.

DApps in PRS Network
DApps by PRS Team
PRESS.one Website
PRESS.one is the official website of PRS project. It contains core functional modules of
the PRS network, including ID proof and content signature management modules, a
content trading module, and an economic module (My Wallet and transaction history). A
Task Admin System, Task Hall, and other resources will also be open as platforms to fund
institutions and stakeholders in the PRS ecosystem.
3rd party developers also can find all the documents, resources, and supports they needed
on PRESS.one.

Mobile App
The PRESSone mobile App, including Android and iOS versions, has been in public beta
since the end of July 2018. The mobile app is positioned differently than the PRESS.one
website. It focuses on the previewing (reading, listening, and playing, etc.), trading, and
aggregation of content on PRESS.one, with the optimal design for mobile application
scenarios.
Future versions will see the mobile app evolve into an online digital content mall and
multimedia reader supporting various content types and file formats.

20

3rd Party DApps
Since the beginning, the PRS team has firmly held the values of openness, technology and
innovation, and attached great importance to the building of developer ecosystems, The
architecture of the PRS protocol layer clearly reflects that 3rd party DApps are a core
component of the PRS network. The participation of and contribution from 3rd party
developers are invaluable for this project.
Here are some examples of 3rd party DApps we assume will arise, matching the stated
values and business logic of the PRS network, driven by substantial pent-up demand, and
representing great market potential. All of them can be built based on the PRS protocol.
There are many other similar ideas. Hope that these examples can be used as inspiration
for developers and entrepreneurs to do more exploration and innovation in the areas
product and business models, using their competitive advantage to create a market niche
of their own.
1. Stock photography pictures: PRS500
A platform aggregates, categorizes, and recommends photos and images collected
from photographers, which allows image users to find what they need and run the
contract to pay the photographer easily.
Product concept: Photographers can link their social network identities and upload
their work. With PRS smart contracts, they can customize various licensing models
supporting different pricing models and ratios of shared revenue. The photographers
get paid without wasting energy on dealing with the trading request. The website
profits from a rational revenue share. Several stock photography can co-exist with
different niche market positioning. All signed contracts and revenue sharing details
are transparent on the blockchain, which is fair for the content producer and the
distributor.
2. Certificate authority service based on PRS: PRSCA
A 3rd party with credibility and a relevant reputation can set up a centralized identity
certificate authority.
Product concept: Although decentralized identity certification is one of the core
concepts of PRS, there are users that consider centralized certification more

21

convenient. A certificate is also a piece of digital content. All smart contacts using
PRS can implement fee-collecting, authentication, and certificate issuing processes.
All the authentication results and certificates will be released on the blockchain after
signing by the certificate authority. Were something to go wrong, the incorrect record
would be open to all and damage the reputation of the certification authority. Such
centralized institutions can co-exist and compete, which would make reputation a
valuable asset to them.
3. News aggregator like Hacker News: PRS Digg
Product concept: Users can forward the good content they find in the PRS network
and up-vote their favourite content by spending PRS. In the end, all the revenue will
be shared based on the associated contract. For instance, the user who forwards the
content receives 30% of the revenue, and 70% belongs to the creator of the content.

PRS Ecosystem
Summary
One of the ways blockchain is disruptive is how it can change incentives, also the ways
and effectiveness of how groups and organizations cooperate. This can redefine
economies and the power of productive activities.
Where do these changes originate from?
●

By holding the token of the project (the PRS Token), participants are the contributors
as well as the value sharers of the PRS ecosystem.

●

The value growth of the whole ecosystem will automatically be allocated to all the
contributors, builders, and investors through the rise in token value, in an
transparent and fair way.

●

This will be one of the major driving forces of participation and commitment from
every stakeholder, encouraging them to cooperate, contribute, and create value for
the ecosystem spontaneously.

22

●

The distribution, equality, transparency, and consensus of blockchain will enhance
trust among people. Furthermore, it will increase the efficiency of collaboration and
offer more ways to participate, endowing individuals with more power and
opportunity.

The PRS ecosystem is a value network being built around the PRS project and its
developing vision. It is a self-organizing system, and with continue to evolving in this way.
Value created by members will be shared in the whole ecosystem. Over the long haul, the
PRS ecosystem will eventually adept a decentralized, distributed, and autonomous
approach to collaboration that encourages diversity and innovation, and establishes a
systematic and orderly symbiotic relationship.

Stakeholders
●

PRS project: the creator and constructor of the PRESSone project

●

PRS Official Foundation: the management and investment institution operated
by the PRESSone project established on May 1st, 2018, whose goal is to promote the
activity and development of the PRS ecosystem. It carries three primary roles at the
current stage:
○ The certification and supervision of funds held by the foundation;
○ Investing in and supporting projects;
○ Establishing and operating PRS directly managed funds.

●

Pioneers community: established by supporters, early token holders and fans of
PRS project in March 2018, with the vision of helping the PRS project and its
ecosystem grow, and acting as builders and guardians of the system.

●

Developers: the developers of third party apps, tools and plugins, code contributors
at the protocol layer, contract developers, and any other technical professionals that
offer technical services and application development in the PRS network.

●

Users: all the users of applications and services in the PRS network, such as content
producers, readers, licensors, licensees, distributors, spreaders, and copyright
agents.

●

Investors: PRS Token holders.

23

How To Engage
●

As a content consumer:

In the traditional model, most consumers only act in the passive roles of customer and
reader. However, the PRS ecosystem allows consumers to play multiple, more proactive
roles, including spreader, distributor, and co-creator. For example:
-

Create and join a diverse reader and fan club for supporting and motivating their
favourite author or subject that intrigues them.

-

Get involved in content discovery, compiling, spreading, distributing, and cocreating. Earn shared revenue and participate in the formation of value and its
distribution.

●

As a content producer:

-

Open a channel and trade your creations, selling or purchasing content licenses on
PRESS.one or 3rd party DApps;

-

Partake in the design of the contract templates and bring innovative application
scenarios or business models to each link of content trading cycle;

-

Invite your readers or followers to come to the PRS network and build a mutually
beneficial cooperation with them;

-

Participate in projects operated by various funds in the PRS ecosystem for
supporting authors and cultivating specific or targeted content creation, potentially
obtaining early bird benefits from these projects.

●

As an investor:

-

Invest and incubate organizations and funds in the PRS ecosystem. The self-funding
fund can run either commercialized or non-commercialized projects.

-

Hold your token and share in the long-term dividends from the PRS network value’s
growth.

●

As a developer and entrepreneur (Please refer to previous sections related to
the value and incentives of engaging in the ecosystem):

-

Build applications, tools, and plugins based on the PRS protocol. Integrate the PRS
protocol with your existing applications;

24

-

Offer web servers, development tools and services to other DApps in the PRS
network;

-

Write contract code templates and sell them on the PRS contract template store.

●

As a community builder and pioneer:

-

Join the PRS Pioneer Community and help manage and operate the community
fund;

-

Claim and fulfill tasks offered by various PRS funds contributing to building the PRS
network and fuelling the boom in the ecosystem, obtaining PRS Tokens as a reward;

-

Start a fund and apply for investment from the PRS Official Foundation or other
investors, working as a trailblazer of innovation to exploit what is lacking in the PRS
ecosystem.

Setting Up Your Fund
Any participant or supporter of the PRS ecosystem, and anyone who believes in PRS’s
value can start a fund, join a fund, or join any project under a fund.
There are two types of funds:
●

Direct Management Fund: Created, managed and operated directly by the
PRS Official Foundation to support the development of the project and the
ecosystem. This may include funds such as a developer relationship building
fund, a PRS branding fund, or a fund to support new creators. These funds are
primarily invested in by the PRS Official Foundation. Some also may accept
outside investment.

●

Self-funded Fund: Voluntarily created by supporters of PRS ecosystem.
You can apply for investment from the PRS Official Foundation, or you can raise
funds by yourself.

The PRS Official Foundation was established to help all participants and builders of the
ecosystem to share experiences and lessons and reduce the risk of failure when operating
funds and projects. All types of funds can get additional support from the PRS project
team in terms of investment, products, technology, and strategy.

25

The main missions of the official foundation include: approve and certify the
establishment of the fund, support the preparation and operation of the fund and
projects, supervise the announcements and transparency of the fund and projects, select
and invest in self-funding funds and projects that can promote the PRS ecosystem, and
supervise and track the usage of funds and results of investments.
In the early stage of PRS ecosystem, the PRS Official Foundation will be relatively
centralized to aggregate the resources of the PRS ecosystem, reduce the risk of failure,
regulate the operation of the fund, explore potential teams, and invest and support
projects.
However, with the development and evolution of the PRS ecosystem, various fund
founding teams, investors, and participants will grow together after various project
experiences. The various organizations, governance, constraints, and reward mechanisms
within the ecosystem will also be improved, and the role of the official foundation will
change as well.
At present, the official foundation and other fund projects are still in the early stages.
Processes and rules will be gradually optimized according to the results of trial operation.
That being said, information transparency is the most basic requirement for each fund
from the PRS Official Foundation, and it is also the primary principle of each project’s
operation.

Potential scenarios for the self-funded funds:
●

Original Sci-Fi Support Fund (Self-funding, Sci-Fi fans raise funds, or invested
in by the PRS Official Foundation). Examples: holding award-winning events with
original Sci-Fi content; holding a PRS Sci-Fi authors meet-up. Extra tokens can be
awarded for behaviours like publishing, reposting, promoting, and reviewing.

●

Specific Writer Fund (Self-funding, non-official investment). The vision for this
type of fund includes an aspect of commercialization. The fund can be invested in by
the writer’s fans, followers, agents, or even the writer themselves.

Direct management Funds founded
PRS Newcomer Fund. Goals: Designing tasks to help newcomers be familiar with PRS
products, discovery valuable content & authors, or explore interesting usage.

26

• PRS Branding Fund. Goal: Expanding the brand influence of PRESSone, promoting
quality apps, creators and content in the network. Designing motive tasks to attract
participants in the creation and dissemination of branded content.
• PRS Developer Fund. Goal: Building a strong relationship with developers, offering
support and resource for 3rd apps development. Discoverying outstanding developers or
quality Dapps, fostering innovation.
• PRS Creation Promoting Fund. Goals: Discover outstanding creators, fostering fine
originals, attracting more quality authors to settle in. Design tasks promote interaction
between authors and readers.

PRS Token
The token in the PRESSone network and ecosystem is called PRS, with a total supply of 2
billion tokens. PRS is issued based on the Ethereum ERC-20 standard contract. In
addition to its circulating value, in the PRS network and DApps the PRS Token can be
used widely for payment, trading, collateralizing, and exchanging for network resources.

Token Consumption
The purpose of consuming the PRS token is to increase the usage cost to prevent spam.
The recycled tokens will be rewarded to the verification nodes as revenue for the network.
Actions which consume the PRS token include: creating a contract, creating a content
signature, executing a contract, and other operations consuming network resources.
Other expenditures could exist in the network as well. For instance, a storage service
provider might request a certain amount of storage fees.

Token Collateral
Vote for the nodes that verify transactions in the PRS network. (The PRS project team and
the uncirculated tokens will not vote.)

27

Token Distribution
On January 8th, 2018, the PRESS.one project issued 2 billion (2,000,000,000) PRS
tokens. Token：0xe0d95530820aafc51b1d98023aa1ff000b78d8b

#
●

Exchange listing: 5% (100,000,000 PRS)

100 million PRS token was listed on Big.ONE on January 8th, 2018. The revenue from the
exchange listing will be used for the PRS project operation and development, including
the expenses of R&D, marketing, operations, media & PR, financial, and legal affairs.
●

Held by anchor investors: 8% (159,800,000 PRS)

Owned by early investors who are influential and optimistic about the prospects of the
PRS project. They will be of great help to the PRS project in terms of resource
cooperation, business development, and market confidence. The acquisition costs of the
anchor investors are the same as the public exchange listing costs at Big.ONE.
●

Team total shares: 20% (400,000,00 PRS)

The shares reserved by the founding team for rewarding contribution of the team
members during the development of PRS. Most of these shares will be locked for a long

28

time. 0.9 million shares (900,010 PRS) have been unlocked as the team quarterly bonus
for 2018-2019.
●

The remaining shares: 67% (1,340,200,000 PRS)

These will be used for ecosystem building, strategic acquisitions and investments,
business partnerships, resource exchanges, verification of node collateral, operations, and
marketing activities. They will be slowly injected into the PRS ecosystem in stages and in
a planned manner.
60 million shares (60,000,000 PRS) have been locked in Candy.one.
2.19 million shares (2,192,538 PRS) have been unlocked for purpose of ecosystem
building, operations, and marketing activities.
The shares planned for the PRS ecosystem will be primarily released by the PRS Official
Foundation to support and establish funds and projects. The foundation will release
signed monthly investment reports to announce each investment amount and purpose,
guaranteeing the information transparency of the foundation.

Token in circulation
•

Total circulating supply: 13.14% (322,892,548 PRS)

Including tokens in public’s hand, holded by anchor investors and the unlocked part in
the team and the remaining shares.
•

Tokens locked: 86.86% (1,737,107,452 PRS)
●

The locked part reserved for the team and the remaining shares:
0x1682c90820a14a24985a8f8340d6baec5ee8a9dd

●

Shares locked in Candy.one:
0xab414ac271b49502e760bb31677997ef37dfbe7a

How to Acquire PRS Tokens
●

You can buy them on cryptocurrency exchanges.

29

●

As a user, you can partake in trading and other economic activities in the PRS
network, including content trading, obtaining rewards, engaging in content discovery,
compiling, spreading, re-selling, and co-creating.

●

As a user and community participant, you can obtain PRS tokens as rewards for
participating in tasks designed by funds in the PRS ecosystem, by making
contributions, and by committing to the completion of tasks.

●

As a deeply involved participant, you can join the project of building the ecosystem.
Start your own fund, submit your project proposal and apply for investment from the
PRS Official Foundation.

●

As a developer and entrepreneur, you can participate in the advancement and growth
of the entire the PRS network by: building applications, tools or services based on the
PRS protocol; providing infrastructure or technology services to other DApps within
the network; integrating the PRS protocol with your existing applications; and so on.
You can profit by offering products and services to your users. PRESSone is quite
willing to incubate and provide investment to projects beneficial to the ecosystem.

TEAM
Li Xiaolai, CEO
Li Xiaolai is a Chinese investor and blockchain enthusiast based in Beijing. As an early
proponent of Bitcoin and blockchain, Li has started several funds, launched a
cryptocurrency exchange, and invested in blockchain projects.

Huo Ju, CTO
Huo Ju has over 20 years of experience in software development, software architecture,
and technology management. Previously, he co-founded GinkgoTek, the first in-site
search engine cloud service provider in China, was a senior researcher at Shanda
Innovations, and worked as an independent technical advisor for several media system
projects with global media giants, including The New York Times and The Financial

30

Times. In addition, Ju is one of the most influential bloggers in the technology and
hacker/crypto space in China.

Xi Qiao, COO & Product director
Xi Qiao has been engaged in the internet field since 2005, working in project
management, UX design, and product management for more than 10 years. Her project
experiences in the digital-content area include building or rebuilding information
systems, websites and workflow systems for the Chinese version of The New York Times
and The Financial Times. She has partnered with Huo Ju in several tech projects and
start-ups. Also, as a content producer, Xi Qiao started Mysterious Programmers in 2009,
the first and most popular comic strip related to technical culture, programmer lifestyle
and project management in China with millions of readers.

31

