White Paper 2.7
Updated: 14.01.2019

qiibee foundation | qiibee.com

Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Disclaimer & Thank you
Executive Summary
1. What is our mission?
2. What problems are we solving?
3. Where are we already?
3.1. Example: Bank issues credit card with token rewards
3.2. Live use case 1: Sausalitos issued tokens & DAPP on qiibee
3.3. Live use case 2: Lattesso issued 20m coins on qiibee
3.4. Live use case 3: Built loyalty token exchange on qiibee
3.5. Further sales pipeline
4. What are the benefits?
4.1. Brand perspective
4.2. Customer perspective
5. How does it work?
5.1. Decentralized Loyalty Apps (DAPPs)
5.2. Software Development Kit (SDK)
5.3. qiibee’s LoyaltyToken Protocol
5.4. Blockchain infrastructure
5.5. Revenue model
5.6. Product roadmap
6. QBX Token Economics & Token Sale
6.1. QBX Token Economics
6.2. QBX Token Sale
6.3. Frequently asked questions
7. Who is qiibee?
References

qiibee White Paper | Page 1 of 43

Disclaimer & Thank you
Disclaimer
All of the information presented in this white paper is tentative and is subject to change
at any time. None of the information herein should be construed as legal, accounting, or
investment advice of any kind. This document does not represent a solicitation for
investment, nor does it represent an offering or sale, public or private, of any kind of
financial instrument, security or otherwise, in any jurisdiction. This white paper is
provided as is, for informational purposes only, with the intention of describing a
prospective software system.
Thank you
Firstly, we would like to express our sincere gratitude to our first external contributor,
Alexander Braun, for his continuous support of this project, his motivation and his vast
knowledge.
Our sincere thanks also go to all the other advisors, Jean-Paul Saija, Dominic Hofer,
Patrick Schilz, Tom Graham, David Wachsman, Yudianto Tri, Reto Hartinger, Oliver
Gnehm, Michele Fabio, Prof. Dr. Sven Reinecke and Prof. Dr. Winfried Koeniger for their
insightful comments and encouragement, but also for the hard questions, which
motivated us to widen our research and consider our product from different
perspectives.
Besides the advisors, we would like to thank our partners Loylogic, Wachsman PR, Bader
Gnehm & Partner and the Swiss Commission for Technology and Innovation (CTI) for
sharing their immense expertise and their extensive support in various areas.

qiibee White Paper | Page 2 of 43

Executive Summary
Loyalty market offers USD 500bn opportunity for blockchain infrastructure
● Today’s point-based loyalty market is inefficient for both brands and customers
● Converting points into real-value loyalty tokens on the blockchain has enormous
potential

qiibee’s LoyaltyToken Protocol capitalizes at significant scale and adoption rate
● Brands issue own loyalty tokens via plug & play and enjoy full flexibility of loyalty
program design
● In 2018 only, 10 brands confirmed loyalty token and DAPP issuance on qiibee

Massive demand for the qiibee token, QBX, is driven by substantial B2B usage of
loyalty tokens
● Buying QBX on the public market is required to back, issue and use loyalty
tokens on qiibee
● This not only creates demand but also decreases the free-circling QBX supply.

Team, advisors and partners have the blockchain expertise and executional track
record to deliver
● qiibee is pushed by well-known experts, funds and market makers: Block
Collider, Fingenom, Bamboo, BitBoom
● Adoption is boosted by 5 partnering agencies that resell QBX-based loyalty
tokens and white-label DAPPs

qiibee White Paper | Page 3 of 43

1. What is our mission?
At qiibee, our mission is to establish a loyalty ecosystem for hundreds of brands
that service thousands of customers.
We help brands run their loyalty programs on the blockchain ​and aim to become an
efficient protocol that enables brands to operate their own loyalty programs, where
they maintain full control. Apart from providing a robust blockchain-agnostic protocol,
qiibee streamlines the integration experience for brands by offering a software
development kit, which has a direct impact on brands’ time and resources. In this sense,
consolidating the loyalty market means creating a loyalty ecosystem that is based on
the same foundation and enabling different loyalty program owners to either move
their existing loyalty programs from off- to on-chain or create their own loyalty tokens
and reward their loyal customers. qiibee will also support brands with the help of
marketing agencies and the qiibee software developer kit.
We give loyal customers the freedom they deserve.
Within the qiibee ecosystem, customers will always have full control of and
transparency about their loyalty programs and tokens. What is more, they have a larger
set of options to choose from and a more convenient way of managing their loyalty
programs. Also, they are free to exit the ecosystem anytime and can participate in the
crypto market without buying crypto with their own FIAT money.
In sum, we want to offer brands and customers the possibility to easily engage with
blockchain technology, directly and indirectly, without the need for cost intensive
integration for brands or an upfront investment for customers.
By making the loyalty landscape more efficient and user-friendly, we aim to make
it a better experience for both brands and the customers.

qiibee White Paper | Page 4 of 43

2. What problems are we solving?
For brands, loyalty is a tricky game.
According to Reuters & Affinity Capital Exchange (2017), an ​estimated USD 500 billion
in points are left unredeemed by members​: This figure clearly shows that brands
have to make their programs more effective to really drive customer behavior. While
loyalty programs have become fairly common, at the same time, customers increasingly
expect more personalized and shared interactions across brands’ loyalty programs,
which makes it essential for brands to rethink their loyalty strategies (Bond Brand
Loyalty, 2017, p.2).
What makes it so hard for brands to successfully navigate the loyalty landscape?
First, loyalty in itself is connected with ​high customer acquisition costs for the
brands​. Not only are loyalty programs expensive to set up, but it is difficult to attract
new customers by means of a loyalty program. In general, customers are reluctant to
sign up for a new loyalty program since the value added is not always immediately
apparent and there is a vast amount of programs available.
Moreover, the ​loyalty landscape is characterized by low levels of engagement and
redemption​. Most of the time, customers collect the points but rarely redeem them.
Against this background, it is difficult for brands to boost the level of activity with their
programs.
Also, the ​loyalty points translate into an outstanding liability for the brands, as
they are accounted for as deferred revenue​. In this sense, the brand has to
determine the amount that reflects the consideration to which it expects to be entitled
in exchange for the goods and services. For this, it needs to estimate the redemption
value of their loyalty points, where variations could have a significant influence on their
respective yearly profit or loss.
Lastly, there are ​operational risks and inefficiencies inherent in loyalty programs​.
Given the vast amount of personal customer data a company holds, the risk of a
massive data breach is apparent. Complex data protection requirements and account
guidelines make it more complicated to manage the security risk.
Loyal customers on the other hand have a hard time in today’s loyalty market.
First, it is a ​highly fragmented market with a large number of loyalty programs
available, making it more difficult for customers to pick the most suitable program.
Customers face a personal barrier to sign up and actually use the programs.

qiibee White Paper | Page 5 of 43

Second, current ​loyalty programs lock in their customers by not offering any
options for exchange​. In this sense, customers also entirely rely on the brands on how
much and what exactly they can receive for their collected points.
Third, the ​points do not have a real value outside of the brand context​, meaning
that generally speaking, customers cannot cash out their received loyalty points.

qiibee White Paper | Page 6 of 43

3. Where are we already?
qiibee’s standardized plug & play solution enables brands to easily issue their own
tokens with the LoyaltyToken Protocol, while still having full freedom to specify their
loyalty tokens.

Although there is a pipeline with various brands waiting to be integrated, qiibee has
decided to limit the rollout to thoroughly test and optimize based on product feedback
from brands and customers.

3.1. Example: Bank issues credit card with token
rewards

qiibee White Paper | Page 7 of 43

While the campaign of this company is still to be announced, the use case demonstrates
the flexibility of qiibee’s LoyaltyToken Protocol. Through the connection to qiibee’s
LoyaltyToken Protocol, the traditional FIAT bank is able to issue its own crypto loyalty
credit card, whereby customers will be rewarded with loyalty tokens for every purchase
they make.

3.2. Live use case 1: Sausalitos issued tokens & DAPP on
qiibee
We have teamed up with Sausalitos, Germany’s leading cocktail bar and restaurant
chain (​https://www.sausalitos.de​). The company has more than 40 locations across
Germany and on average services over 4 million customers each year. With their
contribution in our Token Sale, they are able to use their QBX to create their own token
“Cryptolitos” and use the qiibee LoyaltyToken Protocol.
In this rollout, Sausalitos will be reselling their tokens to suppliers in order to push their
products and deals. Customers on the other hand will be rewarded for their
consumption and are also able to switch their legacy points into the loyalty token
“Cryptolitos”. For the test phase, a total of 333.333 QBX are distributed.

qiibee White Paper | Page 8 of 43

3.3. Live use case 2: Lattesso issued 20m coins on qiibee
Lattesso, one of the biggest coffee producers in Switzerland, is the first company to run
their loyalty program on our LoyaltyToken Protocol.
Currently, Lattesso operates in seven different countries across Europe and Asia (DE,
CH, AT, BE, NLD, LUX, RU) and sells approximately 14 mio. cups of coffees in 2018.
For the rollout, a total of 2 million coffee cups have been distributed, each one with a
code under the Lattesso-Cookie, which could be redeemed for a Lattessocoin (LTS) on
www.lattessocoin.com​. New users were asked to open a Lattesso account, through
which a user-specific qiibee wallet was created, where all of LTS and later tokens from
other brand rollouts are stored. Customers were able to collect their Lattesso tokens
and save these in their wallets, see their accounts’ value development and make a
backup to restore the wallet in case their phone is lost. Check out the Lattesso rollout
document (​https://static.qiibee.com/qiibee-Lattesso-Roll-Out.pdf​) for further details.
As of now, we are preparing the engagement options for Lattesso, like the redemption
strategy for collected tokens.
The rollout was initiated at the Blockchain Summit in Zug in April 2018 and the coffee
cups have been available in stores since the 5th of May 2018.
Tokenize

Reward

Engage

qiibee White Paper | Page 9 of 43

Lattesso created
Lattessocoin ​with the
LoyaltyToken Protocol

2m customers in 7
countries ​are rewarded
with coins

Customers o
​ pen a wallet
and activate their
Lattessocoins

Coffee cups w
​ ere
redesigned and carry a
code

Time-to-market was 4
weeks​, from token
issuance to reward

Lattesso has rich
opportunities to ​engage
loyal customers

3.4. Live use case 3: Built loyalty token exchange on
qiibee
The qiibee app (explained in section “Decentralized Loyalty Apps”) enables users to
store and exchange loyalty tokens for one another, giving them the ultimate freedom of
choice on where they want to redeem their tokens. Users are therefore not limited to
one single loyalty program, but can benefit from every brand inside the qiibee protocol.
On the other hand, brands will be able to approach all the users of the qiibee protocol
via different tools such as airdrops and campaign promotions inside the qiibee app.

3.5. Further sales pipeline
qiibee has received a large amount of attention from brands in Europe and in Asia, who
are interested in running their existing or new loyalty programs on the blockchain.

For most brands, loyalty programs are an integral part of their marketing and customer
relationship strategy, which is crucial for effective customer retention. The rich pipeline

qiibee White Paper | Page 10 of 43

across products and industries is also highly valuable in terms of the varied product
feedback we can expect.
At qiibee, we are extremely motivated by the heavy adoption of the LoyaltyToken
Protocol and DAPPs and committed to continuously expanding our product offering
while scaling the number of brands in our ecosystem.

4. What are the benefits?
We have seen several issues brands and customers alike face when engaging with
loyalty programs.
For brands, high customer acquisition costs, low engagement and redemption, high
outstanding liabilities and operational risks and inefficiencies impede successful
customer engagement.
For customers, the fragmentation of the loyalty market, the lock-in effect and low
usability of points, the lack of a real value of collected points as well as the absence of
ownership of personal data make it less desirable to be active on loyalty programs. We
believe that qiibee offers the solution to these issues.

4.1. Brand perspective

qiibee White Paper | Page 11 of 43

Plug & Play
Connect to the LoyaltyToken Protocol
and launch your token

Engaged customers
Higher engagement and customer
lifetime value

Remove liability
Real value tokens free up your balance
sheet

Remove cost and risk
Blockchain technology is very efficient
and secure

There are four key benefits when considering the LoyaltyToken Protocol from a brand
perspective:
1) Brands can “Plug & Play” with their loyalty program. ​How does it work? In a
first step, the brand’s marketing department sets the budget for the loyalty
program, which needs to be converted into brand loyalty tokens. The qiibee
protocol then creates the brand tokens and sends them to the brand. It is
important to highlight that the brand still has full control of the interaction with
the customer, for instance over its individual app’s interface. In addition, the
brand can also determine exactly how it wants to reward its loyal customers and
how it wants to configure the redemption process.
2) Increased level of engagement a brand can achieve. It has full flexibility in the
construction of its reward and redemption structure. The fluctuation of the
brand’s token value in terms of FIAT also positively affects customer
engagement, since customers are seemingly interested in the value of the tokens
and are thereby incentivized to hold them for a longer period. On top of that, a
brand can tap into a large loyalty community of existing customers on the qiibee
ecosystem, which makes it easier to boost new loyalty programs and attain a
wide customer reach.
3) Elimination of liabilities on the company’s balance sheet​. Since the tokens
that it will give out are tradeable and have a “real” value rather than constituting

qiibee White Paper | Page 12 of 43

a promise from the company to be delivered in the future, the tokens will not be
accounted for as deferred revenue.
4) Reduced costs and risk. ​Given that a brand’s program is built on the qiibee
protocol, the set-up costs for a new program are very low. Customers are also
responsible for their own wallets, so the risk of a massive data breach is
mitigated.

4.2. Customer perspective

qiibee White Paper | Page 13 of 43

Access them all
Store all your loyalty tokens in one
place

Trade them all
Exchange loyalty tokens against one
another

Earn real value
Sell your loyalty tokens for other
cryptocurrencies or FIAT

Enjoy security
Blockchain technology protects your
data

When looking at the customer perspective, there are again four key advantages of using
qiibee for the collection of loyalty tokens:
1) Overview of all their loyalty tokens ​collected from different brands in the
qiibee ecosystem. Customers can still use their favorite brands’ loyalty programs
and interfaces and later import the collected tokens into one common place.
2) Transactions with their loyalty tokens. They can trade them with other
customers in the ecosystem, send or receive tokens from others and participate
in the different brands’ redemption offers.
3) All brand tokens are cryptocurrencies tied to the qiibee token (QBX), which
will be publicly traded​. This way, the brand tokens have a real value outside of
the brand context.
4) Cash out. The qiibee ecosystem offers the customer the ability to sell loyalty
tokens for FIAT or other cryptocurrencies via third party integrations.

5. How does it work?

qiibee White Paper | Page 14 of 43

General overview of the current ecosystem
The image above represents our current general overview of qiibee’s product
offering:
Our loyal customers w
​ ho benefit from having real value, usability and freedom.
Decentralized loyalty apps. ​The qiibee wallet is one of the means by which loyal
customers can interact with the LoyaltyToken Protocol. The qiibee wallet directly
communicates with our API which talks to the protocol.
Our SDK streamlines the loyalty token creation process for brands. As part of the
SDK, the API is the main component and it acts as a bridge between a decentralized app
and our protocol​. ​It is also how brands can join the ecosystem and build and configure
their own loyalty tokens.
The LoyaltyToken Protocol ​enables the communication between the public Ethereum
chain and the different ​loyalty blockchains to make it possible for brands to set up and
run their loyalty programs.
Blockchain infrastructure​. Our protocol is capable of communicating with both the
public Ethereum chain and the ​loyalty blockchains. ​Together, these blockchains make up
the blockchain infrastructure.
Brands and customers will not only be able to make the most of the blockchain and
crypto technology, but also benefit from an easy and user-friendly experience.

qiibee White Paper | Page 15 of 43

Customers have full freedom of choice and backed up value in form of QBX.
Brands have full control over their total brand loyalty token supply and can thereby
easily increase or decrease the loyalty token supply. Consequently, the QBX price
increases with each new brand that enters the ecosystem.
Why do we need blockchain technology?
Blockchain provides an ideal framework for tackling the weaknesses of today’s loyalty
market: points without a real value, trusted programs (weak data privacy), and highly
centralized loyalty programs.

5.1. Decentralized Loyalty Apps (DAPPs)
Brands can build their own decentralized loyalty apps so customers can track their
loyalty tokens on it as well as send tokens to and receive tokens from other customers.
Developers can connect to our API to easily create these apps.
qiibee app
The qiibee app is one way that our loyal customers can interact with our protocol. The
qiibee app directly communicates with our API, which uses the protocol to communicate
with the blockchain and represents the most convenient way for customers to track all
their loyalty tokens from different brands. They can send and receive tokens, check their
current balances and receive the latest updates and news from the brands they like.
The qiibee app is the “gateway” for customers to experience the entire qiibee
ecosystem:

qiibee White Paper | Page 16 of 43

One wallet for all programs. Customers only need to create a wallet once, which can
be used for all loyalty programs.
Overview of loyalty tokens. ​All collected loyalty tokens will be displayed in the
overview section.
Ecosystem information. ​The user will get additional information on new and ongoing
loyalty programs inside the qiibee ecosystem. This provides full transparency and the
chance to compare different programs.
Value development of token portfolio. The user can see the value development of the
token portfolio in qiibee tokens (QBX), FIAT (USD, EUR, CHF, etc.) and other
cryptocurrencies (e.g. BTC, ETH). As it is intended that the QBX will be freely tradeable
on various exchanges, the total FIAT value of the token portfolio will always be changing
and thereby also incentivizes users to log in and check their balance.
Through third-party integration, users also have the opportunity to sell their qiibee
tokens if they wish to do so.
Exchange & trade loyalty tokens with other qiibee users. ​The user will be able to
exchange and send/receive loyalty tokens from other users in the qiibee ecosystem.
This gives customers even more freedom and control over their loyalty programs.

5.2. Software Development Kit (SDK)
The SDK streamlines and facilitates application development running on the
LoyaltyToken Protocol, which saves the time, money, and extensive know-how required
to build it from scratch. Loyalty program owners can focus on their businesses and their

qiibee White Paper | Page 17 of 43

applications, while we support them with our SDK. The bigger the community
maintaining and building on the qiibee protocol, the stronger qiibee’s loyalty ecosystem.
Additionally, we will also develop an interactive dashboard where brands won’t have to
rely on developers; rather any non-technical individual will be able to set up the loyalty
programs.

The SDK is made up of three aspects:
❖ An ​API that brands’ developers can use to easily communicate with the protocol
and (1) create loyalty tokens, (2) issue more supply, (3) see relevant analytics
information such as transaction history, current supply, etc, and (4) exit the
ecosystem. They can also see and modify the token settings: name, symbol,
decimals, rate to QBX, etc.
❖ The ​dashboard​, which is basically an interactive and user-friendly application
that wraps up all the functionality available on the API. This is targeted to brands
that don’t want to rely only on developers.
❖ Documentation​, tutorials and the support center for developers on how to use
the API.
You can find the code and documentation on h
​ ttps://api.qiibee.com​.

5.3. qiibee’s LoyaltyToken Protocol
Our protocol provides a trustless, secure and provable manner for issuing loyalty tokens
backed by a crypto asset across different blockchains. It also guarantees liquidity by
allowing easy redemption, tradability and exit options.

qiibee White Paper | Page 18 of 43

The LoyaltyToken Protocol is made up of four fundamental components: one blockchain
containing a crypto asset that backs the loyalty tokens with a real value, one or more
different blockchains where the loyalty tokens reside, a set of loyalty contracts that
specify how these loyalty tokens are, behave and can be exchanged between them, and
a cross-chain bridge to enable cryptographically secure communication and transfer of
value between the different blockchains.
By staking QBX tokens through the qiibee protocol, brands can issue loyalty tokens on
different blockchains. The QBX token is currently living on the public Ethereum chain
and its main utility is to act as the backing asset for each loyalty token.
One of the main responsibilities of the protocol is to ​establish communication
between the public Ethereum chain and one or more different ​loyalty blockchains (where
loyalty tokens reside), which can guarantee cryptographically secure issuance. The
qiibee protocol is, therefore, ​blockchain-agnostic ​as it does not rely on a particular
blockchain.
For the foundation of its protocol, qiibee has chosen to go over Ethereum-based
blockchains as the ​loyalty blockchains because of its ease of development, the size of its
community and the demand from existing brands. We support the vision that the
Ethereum blockchain is currently one of the best solutions for a wide variety of
decentralized businesses but, nevertheless, as stated before, the qiibee protocol is
blockchain-agnostic so we will be working towards providing compatibility with different
blockchains.
It is important to note that we will be considering loyalty blockchains supporting high
transaction throughput at low costs, as the idea of the qiibee ecosystem is to be
mainstreamed to a massive public.

qiibee White Paper | Page 19 of 43

qiibee protocol high-level overview
The image above shows a high level overview of the qiibee protocol flow:
1) Brand stakes QBX on the public Ethereum chain in order to issue loyalty tokens
2) The cross-chain bridge freezes and locks the QBX tokens in the vault
3) The cross-chain bridge, through a provably communication between the public
Ethereum chain and the ​loyalty blockchain​, issues the loyalty tokens on the loyalty
blockchain.
4) Loyalty tokens are sent to the brand account.
5) Brand can now reward customers.
6) Customers can then redeem their loyalty tokens or exchange them for QBX.
Establishing a cross-chain communication
Highly popular blockchains (e.g Ethereum) are normally chosen to build projects on. As
a result, they are soon susceptible to slow transactions with high fees. With cross-chain
bridges value and data can travel seamlessly between blockchains.
For example, the QBX tokens can remain on the main Ethereum network, while the
loyalty tokens that will be very frequently traded can be on a network that is more
performant. In other words, cross-chain bridges allow us to move computationally
intense operations to better-performance chains reducing costs significantly.
The qiibee protocol is responsible for enabling one blockchain to verify the events
authenticity on the other one in a provably and secure way.
Whenever an exchange between the QBX and a ​loyalty token takes place, the qiibee
protocol must provide a way to atomically perform those actions on both chains. This is
achieved by the concept of ​bridge​.
A bridge allows a value to travel seamlessly between the two chains. We will be focusing
our attention first on building this bridge between the public Ethereum chain and
another Ethereum-compatible chain running a PoA consensus algorithm. The
communication involves smart contracts running on both sides.

qiibee White Paper | Page 20 of 43

As it’s shown in the image above, the ​cross-chain bridge communicates both with the
Ethereum chain and an Ethereum-based loyalty chain.
-

The bridge listens to events from the ​NativeContract deployed on the public
chain
On the other side of the bridge, transactions signed by the PoA validators are
accepted by the ​UtilityContract​deployed to the loyalty blockchain.

| The bridge trust is inherited from validators of the loyalty blockchain.
The bridge connects two chains: the ​public Ethereum blockchain (PEB) and a ​loyalty
blockchain (LB)​. The qiibee protocol sets one bridge contract on each side (the
NativeContract ​and the ​UtilityContract​
, ​respectively) ​and will take care of the
inter-chain communication.
When brands stake QBX into the ​NativeContract​
, they get the corresponding amount
of loyalty tokens according to the brand’s setting for it. Brands can use the
UtilityContract​as they would use any ERC20 token.
Note that for this first approach, we are considering chains with a proof-of-authority
consensus. Relays between the chains happen in a byzantine fault tolerant way using
the authorities of the loyalty blockchain.
Loyalty token issuance
Brands need to stake QBX in order to create new loyalty tokens. Once they do it, the
staked QBX are frozen and locked in a vault as long as the loyalty tokens are in
circulation. Hence, the QBX functions as a sort of entrance and exit to the qiibee
ecosystem and works as the backing token for the loyalty tokens.

brand

stakes

an

​amount

of

QBX

into

the

​NativeContract

qiibee White Paper | Page 21 of 43

by

calling

NativeContract.stake(amount, tokenAddress) function and passing as argument the

amount of QBX to stake and the contract address of the loyalty token.
Then, through a ​callback function this contract emits an ​Issue(brandAddress, amount,
tokenRate, tokenName) event. The ​tokenRate is the conversion rate between the loyalty
token to QBX.
For each event, every validator of the ​loyalty blockchain calls the ​Issue(brandAddress,
amount, txHash)​ function.
Once the set of validators reach consensus the loyalty tokens are issued to the b
​ rand​.
Loyalty token exit to QBX
Both brands and customers can decide to exchange their loyalty tokens to QBX,
because they want to have an exit (in case of brands) or because they want to keep their
tokens in the form of QBX and, potentially, get FIAT money by selling their QBX on an
exchange.

brand or ​customers execute ​UtilityContract.toQBX(address, amount) to convert a

given ​amount of loyalty tokens into QBX. So, this function reduces the balance of the
brand or c
​ ustomer​‘s account for that loyalty token and then emits an ​Exit(address,
amount)​ event.
For every ​Exit() event, validators create a message containing ​address​, ​amount and
txHash of the transaction referenced by the event. Once the set of validators reach
consensus, the loyalty tokens are burnt and the QBX are defreezed and transferred to
the a
​ ddress​.
For our current implementation, we are running tests based on a modified version of
parity-bridge [​https://github.com/paritytech/parity-bridge/​], which securely relays these
conversions.

qiibee White Paper | Page 22 of 43

Reward and redemption
Brand rewards customer with loyalty tokens

Customer redeems his loyalty tokens

Loyalty tokens exchange
Another feature of the qiibee ecosystem is to provide a way to make the loyalty tokens
compatible with one another by creating an exchange mechanism. For our first
implementation, these exchanges will happen within the same Ethereum-based chain.
Customer exchanges loyalty token X for loyalty token Y

5.4. Blockchain infrastructure
Our first implementation involves an Ethereum-based loyalty blockchain. The image
below shows the qiibee vision in terms of its blockchain infrastructure:

qiibee White Paper | Page 23 of 43

The ​Ethereum-based loyalty blockchain provides and ensures high-speed transactions for
low or no fees. These characteristics are key for an ecosystem that wants to offer
microtransactions and be made mainstream.
The exact implementation of the public permissioned blockchain is still an open
discussion for the team. Nevertheless, we are mainly focusing our research on Parity
and the PoA Network blockchains and we are currently running PoCs and have already
gone live with a private blockchain (more details on section 9.5). As part of the
consensus algorithm to be adopted, we are considering Proof-of-Authority,
Proof-of-Stake and Tendermint.
Our current infrastructure
As part of our first PoC, we have already built an Ethereum-based private chain that
works similarly to the public one, with a Proof-of-Work consensus mechanism. Current
running nodes of this blockchain are maintained by the qiibee foundation and hosted
on different servers across different countries to guarantee more security and avoid a
single point of failure.
As a general overview of the current implementation, we can say that the qiibee
ecosystem stands on the two mentioned chains, which will interoperate:

qiibee White Paper | Page 24 of 43

On the left side of the image we can see the ​public Ethereum blockchain while on the
other, we have the ​private Ethereum blockchain​. The mining of blocks happens only when
a new transaction is executed. Each one of the nodes is in charge of validating and
confirming transactions happening as a result of the rewards that brands give to
customers.
This first approach has some important limitations: trust relies completely on qiibee and
its API. Thus, having a private chain is not the way to go to build loyalty programs on top
of the qiibee protocol.
qiibee wallet generation
Customers joining a brand’s loyalty system will have to
generate a qiibee wallet (an Ethereum-based wallet) if they
don’t have it yet. As the majority of the customers might
not be aware of what this means and in order to help
brands to offer their customers an easy way to create
their qiibee wallets, we have designed the ​qiibee web wallet
(QWW)​.

The QWW aims to make it easy for brands to generate Ethereum wallets for their
customers while still allowing customers to use one account for all their loyalty
programs. This wallet works locally on each customer’s computer or device (to ensure
greater security) and it grants them access to their wallet information, including their
recovery mnemonic phrase and private key.
After a customer opens a loyalty account on the brand’s site (e.g ​www.lattessocoin.com​)
they will be automatically redirected to the QWW, as shown in the image above.
If they already had a qiibee wallet, they won’t have to do anything. Otherwise, they will
be prompted to set a password to secure the newly generated wallet.
Let’s consider the following scenarios:
❖ Alice wants to open a loyalty account in Lattesso. She’s never had a qiibee wallet
before — so she goes to lattessocoin.com and signs up. Then, Lattesso’s site will
detect, through the qiibee web wallet, that she does not yet own a wallet. The
QWW will create a wallet and send the address to the Lattesso site.

qiibee White Paper | Page 25 of 43

Alice does not have a qiibee wallet
❖ Alice wants to open a loyalty account with Lattesso. She already has a qiibee
wallet. She goes to lattessocoin.com and signs up. Then, Lattesso’s site will
detect, through the qiibee web wallet, that she does have a wallet. Thus, it will
just send Alice’s existing wallet address back to Lattesso site.

Alice already has a qiibee wallet
What happens if a customer wants to collect other loyalty tokens? Must they generate a
new wallet each time?
❖ No. So long as a customer uses the same device, our web wallet will detect
his/her wallet. Whenever a new wallet is generated, its information is locally
stored on the device’s browser.
If a customer switches over to different device, they can import the existing wallet by
copy-pasting the mnemonic phrase generated (available at
https://wallet.qiibee.com/mnemonic.html​).
The qiibee team is working hard to provide a host of options to make
exporting-importing as painless as possible. Such options include: automatic export
from your mobile device browser to the qiibee mobile applications, QR scanning, etc.
Private key storage
At qiibee, we don’t store customer’s private keys. Whenever a customer creates a wallet,
this process is performed client-side. That means that the generation process is
executed on their desktop computer or mobile device, not on our or other external
servers.
This ensures (1) anonymity, as we never ask customers to provide personal data that
may be linked to their wallet address and (2) security, since we don’t have any way to
access customer funds, neither will any bad actors.
However, customers should note that if they lose a device, they could lose access to
their funds as well. Because we don’t store any wallet information on the backend, we

qiibee White Paper | Page 26 of 43

don’t have a way to recover it. This is why it is so important that users save their private
keys or mnemonic phrase [​https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Mnemonic_phrase​] in one or more
safe places.

5.5. Revenue model
The guiding principle to determine revenue streams for qiibee’s business model is
value. If qiibee can help brands run their loyalty programs on the blockchain and offer
customers more transparency and control over their loyalty tokens, it will be successful.
Despite not being final, the most important sources of revenue will most probably be
revenue from brands. These might include items such as set-up fees for the creation of
loyalty tokens, transaction fees for the maintenance of a loyalty program and the fees
for promotions in the qiibee app, such as airdrops to targeted customers or highlighted
campaigns. As of today, qiibee is not planning on taking fees from customers using the
services.
As of today, qiibee is not planning on taking fees from customers using the services.

5.6. Product roadmap
The new product has been designed to offer tools for brands to independently set up
and control their loyalty programs and, simultaneously, to offer customers greater
transparency into existing loyalty programs on the ecosystem, a convenient way to
manage all programs in one place and the opportunity to cash out QBX tokens.
The product is the current distillation of extensive customer interviews from the
off-chain solution and feedback from the sales partners. In the following, qiibee’s
high-level product roadmap for the next months until the end of the year is illustrated.

qiibee White Paper | Page 27 of 43

6. QBX Token Economics & Token Sale

6.1. QBX Token Economics
We believe it is extremely important to give participants of our Token Sale a deep
understanding of the economics of the qiibee token, QBX.

By structuring the use cases and lifecycle of QBX, demand from agencies, loyalty system
providers, brands, merchants and loyal customers to use loyalty tokens is directly
translated into demand for QBX on public exchanges.

qiibee White Paper | Page 28 of 43

Annual budgets from the loyalty industry build a natural and fundamental driver of the
QBX business model. For example, will marketing agencies partnering with qiibee make
the loyalty programs part of their own portfolio, provide them with their marketing
expertise and offer them to their existing brand clients. This approach has three main
advantages: It allows for strong partnerships with interests that are aligned between the
parties involved, fast scaling of sales pipeline via multiplicators and improving of the
product offering based on bundled sales feedback from agencies.

Our traction shows: The loyalty industry is ready to invest and enters loyalty on the
blockchain.
The B2B demand estimation is based on our H1 2018 agency sales figures with:
● On average 9 new brands or merchants per year and agency
● 25 new brands launched in 2018
In this demand estimation, there is neither B2C demand nor direct adoption from
brands independent of agencies considered. We are aware that brands will need

qiibee White Paper | Page 29 of 43

support in buying and selling QBX and work therefore with various brokers to help us
handle the demand volume.

6.2. QBX Token Sale

6.3. Frequently asked questions
How many qiibee tokens (QBX) will be sold in
the TGE?
In total, 48.1% of all QBX will be distributed in the
TGE.
What happens to the remaining 51.9% of all
QBX?
2.9% Brand Sale: easily onboard new brands and
expand qiibee ecosystem.
30% Ecosystem: qiibee ecosystem, community,
loyalty programs.
14% Team: Includes current and future advisors as
well as existing and future team members.
5% Bounty & partners: Used to build a strong
community and compensate partners for their
effort, research, network, trust and exposure.
What are the soft and hard cap of the qiibee
token sale?
The soft cap of USD 3m has already been reached.
The hard cap of the Token Sale is USD 11.25m.
What happens if not all QBX will be sold?

What is the QBX price in the Token Sale?
1 QBX = 0.0001 ETH. Fixing price vs. ETH is
necessary due to our smart contract. The
exchange rate to ETH will be used to determine the
amount of QBX if a contribution is made in another
currency.
Who can participate in the qiibee Token Sale?
Everyone passing the KYC & AML process is able to
participate in the qiibee token sale. Citizens and/or
residents of restricted countries are not allowed to
purchase QBX during the TGE.
How will qiibee use the KYC & AML data?
All KYC & AML data will be checked externally by
Intrum Justitia. This is a trusted third party
authority which is compliant with FINMA. All data
will be deleted.
What can I do with the qiibee token?
Brands can use the QBX to create and distribute
their own loyalty token. Customers can collect,
exchange and redeem these loyalty tokens inside

qiibee White Paper | Page 30 of 43

The generated brand traction is overwhelming. If
not all allocated QBX for the Token Sale can be
sold, these QBX will be transferred to the Brand
Sale pot and used to onboard brands in the near
future.
Which currencies will be accepted?
BTC, ETH, BCH, LTC, XRP, DASH, ETC, USD, EUR,
CHF, OMG, NPXS, BAT, GNT, BNT, STORM, WINGS,
REP, BNB, ZRX
What is the minimum and maximum
contribution size in the Token Sale?
Minimum = 200 USD, maximum = 10’000 USD*
* If you are interested in bigger contribution, send
us an email at: c​ ontribute@qiibee.com

What loyalty bonus will participants of the
Token Sale receive?
5% bonus for contributions in the first week.

the qiibee ecosystem or convert them to QBX to
exchange for crypto and FIAT.
Is the QBX transferable?
The QBX will be transferable after the end of the
Token Sale. QBX will only be locked for the
ecosystem (36 months), team (36 m.), advisors (6
m.), Pre-Sale (6 m.).
When will QBX be listed on exchanges?
It is our goal that QBX will be listed on several
exchanges after the Token Sale.
Why do I need an ERC20 compatible receiver
wallet address?
QBX is a ERC20 token. In order to receive the QBX,
every contributor needs an ERC20 compatible
wallet address. This address can not be an
exchange wallet! Otherwise the QBX will the be lost
and not useable by the contributor. Mobile: we
recommend to create a ​qiibee wallet​. Desktop, we
recommend to create a ​myetherwallet​.

7. Who is qiibee?

11
full time
employees

7
product &
tech

3
years
core team

70%
have entrepreneurial
experience

qiibee has expanded its core team from 7 to 18 employees since
the closing of the seed round in January 2018.

Currently, the company is hiring to expand its product and tech
team from 5 people to 8 people until the Token Sale.

What makes the team especially interesting is that the founding
team has been with the company since 2015.

70% of the team has been part of the foundation of a company
before joining qiibee.

qiibee White Paper | Page 31 of 43

16
years experience in
loyalty

The total number of years of experience in the loyalty space is
more than 16.

Gabriele Giancola
Sales & Partnerships
“I leverage my industry
network and build strategic
partnerships”

Gianluca Giancola
Design & UX
“I create qiibee’s look & feel in
design and user experience”
●

●

●

●

Co-founded and built
qiibee with his brother
Gianluca
Former GE with 6 years
of experience in the
loyalty sector
MA Management, St.
Gallen

Federico Alconada
Blockchain Architecture
“I build and architect qiibee’s
overall blockchain protocol”
●
●

●

Ethereum blockchain
engineer
Former software
engineer at Avature and
CERN
MSc Computer Science,
top 1% student at UNLP,
Buenos Aires

Claudio Sgarbi
Token Economics

●

●

Co-founded and built
qiibee with his brother
Gabriele
Founder of gratis-auto.ch
and designed with Snips
and University of Basel
MA Graphic Design, IED
Milan

Felicia Giancola-Teora
Finance & Legal
“I manage all legal, tax and
financial matters of qiibee”
●

●

Aaron de Miranda Colaço
Blockchain Engineering
“I build qiibee’s private and
permissioned blockchain”
●

●

●

Built POCs and POVs
using Ethereum,
Quorum, and
Hyperledger Fabric
Consulted large
companies to integrate
blockchain
BEng, Information
Technology, India

Jacqueline Bieri
Marketing & PR

Founder and owner of
Sires, a worldwide
trading company
30 years of experience in
management of
international platform
businesses

Dan Octavian
Back End Development
"I build and implement
qiibee's back end systems"
●

●
●

3 years of experience in
challenging Silicon Valley
startup environment
Passion for decentralized
technology
MEng Computer Science
at Imperial College
London

Kai Wang
China Expansion

qiibee White Paper | Page 32 of 43

Pascal Schindelholz
Blockchain & Infrastructure
“I develop qiibee's blockchain
and overall infrastructure”
●

●

●

Building and maintaining
crypto mining
environments since 2012
Owner of a web and
internet application
agency
Passion for secure and
independent
infrastructures

Elvis Dedic
Decentralized Application
Engineering
“I implement qiibee's wallet
app and frontend
components”
●

●
●

Track record on mobile
applications
development with React
Native.
Active user on Leetcode
and Hackerrank.
BA, English Language
and Literature at Faculty
of Philosophy, Sarajevo

“I design the economics of
qiibee together with brands &
advisors”
●

●
●

“I lead all the marketing, pr
related matters and connect
with our loyal community”

Helped to build Spirit of
Switzerland, a Swiss
Liquor distributor
Passion for financial
modeling
BA Business
Management, University
of St. Gallen

●

●

Built her own blog with
9,000 followers and
worked with major
brands, e.g. Ritz Carlton
MA Brand Management,
Regent’s University
London

“I enjoy enhancing & enriching
qiibee enroute to Asian
market”
●

●

●

Eight years of experience
in supply chain
management, capital
markets and business
development
Bronze Medal in Chinese
National
Entrepreneurship
Competition
MBA, Sun-yet-sen
University

In order to get a thorough understanding of the strategic, legal and marketing
implications of our business we make use of the expertise of our trusted and highly
competent advisors and strategic partners.
Excellent advisors share their network and expertise

Alexander Braun
Loyalty Advisor

Chris Cracchiolo
Lead Advisor
“I provide qiibee with
indispensable brand and
customer insights”

“I support qiibee from day 1
and will stay for the long run”
●

●

●

Vice President and
General Manager of
Global Membership
Rewards and Loyalty
Benefits at American
Express
Has led numerous
high-performing teams
responsible for
managing and growing
relationships with some
of American Express’
largest and most
strategic partners

Patrick Schilz

●

●

Early blockchain adopter,
and crypto investor and
miner
Acting as qiibee’s
direct-marketing & sales
expert
Independent business
owner

Omer Ozden

Jean-Paul Saija
Loyalty Advisor
“I grow qiibee further building
on my experience and
know-how”
●

●
●

Partner at MindNow,
moving the loyalty world
on qiibee
Founded more than 20
start ups
CEO of dealini.ch, a tech
focused loyalty agency

Tal Cohen

qiibee White Paper | Page 33 of 43

Dominic Hofer
Loyalty Advisor
“I work with the qiibee team
on the next big idea for
loyalty”
●

●

Founder and CEO of
Loylogic, the global
leader in e-payment
solutions for loyalty
programs
Seasoned loyalty expert
with deep expertise and
focus

Yudianto Tri

Blockchain Advisor
“I push qiibee with my
blockchain knowledge and
network”

China Strategic Advisor
“I advise qiibee on fundraising
and strategy in China”
●

●
●
●
●

Board member, Block
Collider
Worked for String Labs
and Dfinity
Shaped Crypto Valley in
Zug
MBA INSEAD

●
●
●

Oliver Gnehm
Legal Advisor
“I successfully steer qiibee
through the legal landscape”
●

●
●

Attorney and partner at
Bader Gnehm & Partner
since 2009
Expert in blockchain
regulation
MSc Decision Sciences
from the London School
of Economics

Partner at Dfund
and DGroup
International
Partner, ZhenFund
Chairman,
RockTree Capital
Chairman of the
World Blockchain
Council’s Legal
Committee

Blockchain Advisor
“I advise qiibee on token
economics and token sale”
●

●

●

David Wachsman
PR Advisor
“I build and maintain qiibee’s
reputation in the public”
●

●

Founder and CEO of
Wachsman, the world’s
largest blockchain PR
agency
Previously held roles in
advertising and political
affairs

Blockchain expert,
co-founder, and leader of
3 successful tech
ventures and a McKinsey
strategy consultant
CEO of Compass
Blockchain, CEO &
Co-founder, Sirin Labs
Industry manager,
Google

Prof. Dr. Sven Reinecke
Academic Advisor
“I strategize on customer
retention and loyalty”
●

●

●

Director Institute of
Marketing at the
University of St. Gallen
Co-Founder of the Swiss
Virtual Business School
VBS AG
“Best Practice in
Marketing”

Loyalty Advisor
“Loyalty on the blockchain will
be a game changer in
Southeast Asia”
●
●

●

President of the retail
association in Indonesia
Serial entrepreneur
pushing qiibee in
Southeast Asia
Member of the chamber
of commerce

Prof. Dr. Winfried Koeniger
Academic Advisor
“I offer economics perspective
to complement the business
aspects”
●

●

●

Professor of Economics
at the University of St.
Gallen
PhD in Economics from
the European University
Institute
Expert in Empirical
Economics

Jean-Paul Saija for example, who is CEO of dealini.ch, a creative agency with tech focus
based in Switzerland, has been crucial in securing partnership deals.
Dominic Hofer​, founder and CEO of Loylogic, the global leader in e-payment solutions
for loyalty programs, has been an important source of insights into the loyalty market.
Furrerhugi​, a Swiss PR agency with an established network in Switzerland has been
instrumental in building our reputation in the Swiss market.
PrimeTax​, Swiss law agency focusing on tax-related issues, has worked out our tax
ruling with the government in Zug.
This is just a selection of the valuable contributions we have received from our advisors
and partners so far:

qiibee White Paper | Page 34 of 43

We are trusted by strong contributors and partners
Trusted Contributors

Trusted Partners

Industry Relationships

qiibee White Paper | Page 35 of 43

qiibee White Paper | Page 36 of 43

References
Bond Brand Loyalty (2017). T​ HE BATTLE FOR LOVE & LOYALTY. The Loyalty Report 2017.
Retrieved from: h
​ ttp://info.bondbrandloyalty.com/2017-loyalty-report
Fenech, C. & Perkins, B. (2017). C
​ ustomer loyalty: A relationship, not just a scheme.
Retrieved from:
https://www2.deloitte.com/tw/en/pages/consumer-business/articles/gx-consumer-revie
w.html
Fromhart, S. & Therattil, L. (2016). ​Making blockchain real for customer loyalty rewards
programs. Reinvigorate loyalty programs with blockchain​. Retrieved from:
https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/financial-services/articles/making-blockchain-re
al-customer-loyalty-rewards-programs.html
Fruend, M. (2017). ​2017 COLLOQUY Loyalty Census Report​. Retrieved from:
https://www.colloquy.com/reports/
Consumer Reports. 2008. Points mania. Consumer Reports, 73, 12-13.
Pearson, B. 2016. 9 Things You Don't Know About Retail Loyalty Programs In 2016.
Forbes, (January 2016). URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/bryanpearson/2016/01/04/9things-you-dont-know-about-retail-loyalty-programs-in-2016/#50f2d21434df
Colloquy 2017 Loyalty Census report, h
​ ttps://www.colloquy.com/reports/

qiibee White Paper | Page 37 of 43

