11/1/2019

RKN
TOKEN

WHITE PAPER - VERSION 1.2

Copyright Rkntoken.io | All Rights Reserved

Legal Disclaimer
This whitepaper has been prepared by "RKN Token" for the purposes of providing
information on its projected business model and use case for its utility token ("RKN").
This Whitepaper is provided for informational purposes only. The information contained
in this Whitepaper is confidential and proprietary to the Company and is being submitted
to you solely for your confidential use for evaluation purposes only, with the express
understanding that without the prior written consent of the Company, you will not release
the Whitepaper or discuss the information contained herein, or make reproductions of,
or use this Whitepaper for any purpose other than evaluating a potential business
relationship with the Company. Furthermore, by accepting delivery of this Whitepaper, you
agree to promptly return to the Company, and destroy all copies in your possession, this
Whitepaper and any other documents or information furnished by or on behalf of the
Company, if you elect not to enter into a business relationship with the Company. A
purchase of RKN tokens involves certain risks, especially the risk factors relating to any
purchase of tokens. For greater certainty, this Whitepaper reflects information on the
proposed business of RKN and is expressly not an offering of a financial investment. Any
and all information contained in this Whitepaper may be updated, modified or amended
at any time by RKN; as such, its completeness and factual accuracy is not guaranteed,
and this information may change from time to time without notice. RKN does not
undertake, and is not obligated to, provide readers with notice of any changes to the
information herein. While RKN has endeavored to ensure that the information contained
in this Whitepaper is accurate as at the time of publication, neither RKN , nor any of its
officers, directors, employees, advisors, partners, or agents (the "RKN

Representatives")

make any representation or warranty, express or implied, or accept or will accept any
responsibility or liability in relation to the accuracy or completeness of the information
contained in this Whitepaper or any other written or oral information made available to
any party. For greater certainty, RKN and the RKN Representatives expressly disclaim any
and all responsibility for any direct or consequential loss or damage of any kind
whatsoever arising directly or indirectly from:

2 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

(i)

Reliance on any information contained in this Whitepaper;

(ii)

Any error, omission or inaccuracy in any such information; or

(iii)

Any action resulting from such information.

No representation or warranty is given as to the achievement or reasonableness of any
future projections, estimates, prospects or returns contained in this Whitepaper. Readers
should not construe the content of this Whitepaper, or any other communications by or
on behalf of RKN or any of its advisors as financial, legal, tax or other advice.
Accordingly, each reader of this Whitepaper should consult their own professional
advisors as to financial, legal, tax and other matters concerning any potential
participation in connection with the subject matter herein. Images used herein are for
illustrative purposes only and are subject to all relevant international copyright and
trademark laws and restrictions. Accordingly, this Whitepaper or any of its images, copy
and material may not be reproduced without the prior, express written approval of RKN.
Except for statements of historical fact, certain information contained herein constitutes
Forward-Looking Statements which include, but are not limited to, statements related to
activities, events or developments that RKN expects or anticipates will or may occur in
the future, including the development and functionality of the RKN token, the RKN
Platform and related services, to user adoption and experiences, context that may be
offered on the RKN Platform, statements related to the Company’s business strategy,
objectives and goals, and management’s assessment of future plans and operations
which are based on current internal expectations, estimates, projections, assumptions
and beliefs, which may prove to be incorrect. Forward-Looking Statements are often
identified by the use of words such as "may", "will", "could", "would", "anticipate",
"believe", "expect", "intend", "potential", "estimate", "budget", "scheduled", "plans",
"planned", "forecasts", "goals” and similar expressions. Forward-Looking Statements are
based on a number of factors and assumptions made by management and considered
reasonable at the time such information was provided. Forward-Looking Statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the

3 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those
expressed or implied by the Forward-Looking Statements.

1. KICK OFF:
Everything started with an idea originated from the mind of a mysterious man, known as
Satoshi Nakamoto with the release of a white paper followed by the first genesis block
generated, represents the birth of blockchains. From doubts, speculations, hype & fear
to a technology that revolutionized the world for forever. Bitcoin revolutionized the world
and is globally recognized as Blockchain 1.0.
The release of Ethereum white paper in 2004, represent a giant leap in blockchain through
the introduction of smart contracts and their execution through virtual machines. Ethereum
demonstrated the real–world application of blockchain technology.

4 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

2. Understanding Of Blockchain Technology
1. What is Blockchain??
Blockchain is a method of storing information in the form of a chain of blocks.
Each subsequent block references the previous one, so that the removal of the
intermediate link invalidates the entire chain. Blockchain technology is used in
modern solutions of distributed networks, when information is written to the chain
by many participants, none of which can change the previously recorded data.
This approach allows you to create reliable and transparent records of all
transactions made on the network at the technological level.

2. The Vision of RKN
The vision of RKN is to build a trust-free and the preferred supplier to the
Communications Infrastructure, Positioning, Aerospace and Defense markets with
comprehensive application knowledge to enable transparent information flow and
efficient collaboration.

We live in a world of open, connected, global, free
communication and information sharing.
The open internet – a global, distributed network of computers that share common open
software protocols has enabled billions of humans to connect and share information
instantly, securely. The implications for the world have been profound, and are still
unfolding.
The invention of cryptographic assets and blockchain based computing and data sharing
have ushered in the next major era of the open internet.

5 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

We believe that RKN has all the necessary features to be a future part of web standards
that has the capability to revolutionize the world. With the in mind, we are proud to
announce “RKN Token” as a token to exchange in a secure, anonymous, opt in blockchain
technology that aims at enriching the experience of the connected society by delivering
innovative, highly reliable frequency control and timing solutions for infrastructure, satellite
in space, or navigation devices.

RKN Token is essential to realizing the full potential of block – chain technology in the
world of frequency control and timing devices. RKN plans to create a network scheme to
manage the creation, redemption, and flow to these assets in a way that is transparent
to its users.
In addition to governing and auditing network membership, RKN plans to provide
technology to address price volatility and transaction scalability challenges on top of
existing public blockchain infrastructure. Specifically, RKN plans to provide:
•

A mechanism for issuing members to mint and burn/redeem asset-backed “stable–
coins,” to address price volatility;

•

Protocols to enable global stable–coin transaction interoperability on public block–
chains using state channels for increased throughput and scalability;

•

Network membership rules and smart contracts to govern, audit, and manage the
licensed network participants that mint, transact, and redeem stable-coins.

3. The targeted market of RKN Ecosystem is:
Global Positioning System:
We have pioneered the most optimized way to design, manufacture and test oscillators
to address the unique requirements of GNSS systems. No other company in the world
can offer our products breadth, precision, innovation, and expertise in the field of GPS.

6 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

In the corporate payments market, the fruit that hangs the lowest is in vendor payments,
and in the ability to integrate verification into transactions. There have been several gig
economy players expressing interest in using cryptocurrency for real-time payments for
gig workers, while there have also been some inquiries among treasurers at larger
corporations exploring the use of blockchain and cryptocurrency for things like foreign
currency conversion and automatic sales tax calculations. RKN doesn’t yet operate in the
B2B payments space. However, the company first rolled onto the scene as exclusive
partner of Orbit Netwrok INC on ONCS project, allowing the firearms retailer to offer its
own digital coin as a more secure form of payment. It automatically integrates compliance
due diligence, like background checks and age requirement adherence, based on where
sales are made — noting these security features in contrast with the reputation of crypto
to provide anonymity in highly regulated industries like this.

7 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

Telecommunication:

With the exponential traffic growth in telecommunication, we enable our customers to
build more reliable networks and systems supporting today’s precise timing standard. RKN
provides some of the most advanced timing solutions and has led the world in enabling
connectivity everywhere in a networked world.

8 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

Internet of Things (IoT):

With over 5 billion devices globally in 2015, IoT is the next big thing in technology and
is expected to reach 20.8 billion connected devices by 2020. RKN is focused on delivering
solutions for this growing and challenging market.

Other Markets:
RKN has an extensive portfolio of products for applications including the following: wireless
control, test and measurement, smart power grids and metering, Machine to Machine
(M2M) and the Internet of Things (IoT), avionics, airborne systems, communications, radars,
submarines cable networks, oil exploration and other RF and digital applications requiring
precise radio or data communications.

9 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

4. 0.Distributed Business Ecosystem

In this Era of heightened security, we are determined to design and manufacture
frequency control solutions that will help organizations around the world to experience
highly secured, synchronized and fast transaction systems that are crucial for the
performance of critical applications.

10 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

In the RKN platform, there are several main types of participants:

1) Crypto Investors :
2019 promises to be a crucial year for investors and the crypto space alike in
the domain of digital currency. Join us as we continue to provide market-leading
technology in the field of frequency control and timing solutions that will help
you navigate the investment opportunities available as smartly, safely and
securely as possible.

2) Institutional Crypto Investor & Fund Managers :
Cryptocurrency funds have emerged as an alternative to Institutional Investors
and Fund Managers who prefer to pour-in more significant capitals into
cryptocurrencies than average retail investors. RKN Token offers an effective
approach for such investors to pause between periods of investment activity both
short and long term, without completely exiting the crypto market. CRYPTO

3) Various Organizations :
Cryptocurrency funds have emerged as an alternative to Institutional Investors
and Fund Managers who prefer to pour-in more significant capitals into
cryptocurrencies than average.

11 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

The "FUEL" in the Distributed Ecosystem – RKN Token
1. The FUEL :
In this Era
frequency
experience
crucial for

of heightened security, we are determined to design and manufacture
control solutions that will help organizations around the world to
highly secured, synchronized and fast communication systems that are
the performance of critical applications.

From the beginning, our vision was to create a truly reliable Cryptocurrency that
will fundamentally revolutionize the way Frequency Control Products are engineered
where speed and reliability are paramount. The outcome is "RKN Token – The FUEL
of RKN Ecosystem" which will enrich the experience of the connected society by
delivering innovative, highly reliable frequency control and timing solutions for
infrastructure, satellites in space or navigation devices in communication forefront.
RKN Token is the “Smart Money” or “Smart Value” in RKN Ecosystem which is
programmable and executable in the smart contracts to carry on value transferring
along with commercial activities running on RKN Blockchain.
RKN Token can be bought through Initial Coin Offerings (ICO) or can be earned
by promoting and lobbying for its adoption. Although, ICO contributors will have
an immutable benefit, this will not be available to all the other holders of RKN
Token.
Simply join our newsletter for all the promotional updates.

2. Stable-Coin Minting & Redemption Sequences:

RKN Smart Contracts manage the minting and the redemption/burning of stablecoin, which can be used for both the exchange and wallet interoperability use
cases. Customers who are on-board through a reliable token on ramp, such as
web application created and maintained by a licensed RKN token issuing member,
12 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

can transfer fiat funds into that RKN issuer’s account. The issuer then executes a
series of commands with the RKN network to verify, mint, and validate fiat tokens
pegged to the value of those deposited funds. The customers can then transfer
those tokens elsewhere in order to use them. Redemption follows the reverse
sequence. Upon successful verification and validation, funds from underlying fiat
reserves would be transferred to the customer’s external bank.

3. Wallet-to-Wallet Transaction Sequence:
RKN can facilitate compliant, reliable, safe, high-speed transfers between
individuals who use different wallet apps (like MetaMask, Ledger, Trezor (Upcoming))
in shared as well as different cryptocurrencies without requiring private business
development negotiations or using private networks.

13 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

3. Public Blockchain Foundation

14 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

The foundation devotes itself to the research, designing and manufacturing of highly
accurate frequency control and timing solutions blockchain platform which is motivated
on revolutionizing frequency control and timing ecosystem, enabling fraud free,
transparent flow of sharing and transmission of values by all users and participants in
the industry and a variety of blockchain based applications in this industry, promoting
blockchain community ecosystem that is both secure and transparent.

Board of Directors:

Study and formulate long-term plans, manage the use of resources for the
development of the RKN Token Platform, constitute regulations and
management systems, analyses and approve the feasibility of new projects,
and manage daily operations of RKN Public Blockchain.

Risk Control Committee:

Research and formulate risk control strategies, develop risk control
standards, review overall operational risks, convene risk review meetings for
projects and reveal the outcomes of reviews.

Compensation and Personnel Committee:

Formulate and modify remuneration, incentive programs, audit institutions
and post settings, take charge of staff recruitment.
Audit Committee:

Responsible for operational audit, financial audit, and code audit.

15 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

3. Organizational Structure and Advisors
The RKN organization will be seeded with several key RKN employees who are
determined to achieve success. This talent includes individuals in engineering,
operations, business development, finance, and compliance. The RKN organization will
be supported by a strong board of advisors with deep experience in internet platforms,
protocols and consumer products, enterprise development, open source software, and
deep expertise in cryptocurrency and blockchain technology.

16 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

4. Technical Roadmap:

17 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

The Roadmap of RKN technical development stated below complies with the vision and
mission of RKN Blockchain:

5. TOKEN LAUNCH

Token Launch Summary:
Launch date and time: March 15, 2019 at 00:00 UTC Time.
Exchange rate: Token will have a launching price of 0.000001 ETH. (The rate can

fluctuate depending on the market demand.)
Token contract address: 0x6e5a43db10b04701385a34afb670e404bc7ea597
Acceptable Currencies: Ethereum (ETH), Bitcoin (BTC)
Token launch completion: Token launch will end when either the maximum number of
ETH are raised. If less than the minimum ETH is raised, ETH can be retrieved by
holders of RKN.

Token Distribution:
285,714,286 RKN Token will be issued in total with 85% distribution plan to be
announced in White Paper Version 2.

18 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

Fund Budgeting:
RKN Ecosystem’s budget mainly includes day-to-day operations, technology development
& research, business development and investment. The main categories are shown in
the following table:
CLASSIFICATION

PERCENTAGE

CONTENT

Technology
Development

50%

This mainly includes earnings for the technical team,
recruitment of experts and developers, technical patent
and protection of intellectual property rights

Business
Development

30%

RKN business engagement and development, knowledge
exchange and sharing, regulation and compliance,
alliance establishment and participation, etc.

Investment

10%

RKN Incubation Program to support the other startups
to build up business applications on RKN Blockchain or
for collaborative purposes

Daily Operation

5%

Daily administrative and operational tasks including,
financial, reporting etc.

19 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

6. Media Plan:
For our Marketing Team, developing marketing strategy and implementing it are both
equally important, though they think that developing the strategy is crucial phase as
the whole outcome depends on. Although one cannot get best outcome from a
strategy if it is not implemented in a scientific and modern way.

7. Contract Integration:
The valid contract address which can get integrated with RKN platform is assigned and
validated by Etherscan.io platform which can be find as below:

0x6e5a43db10b04701385a34afb670e404bc7ea597
8.

Disclosure:

Once a year, the RKN Ecosystem/Foundation will share the progress and status of the
business and technical development, operations, and future with the community. For the
financial situation of the Foundation, the public financial report will be drafted and
shared quarterly, and the work of the annual audit will be disclosed.
The RKN Ecosystem/Foundation has established the Public Relations Committee, which
serves as an external window for regular and irregular meetings, and will release
important information to the public.

20 | Copyright Protected by rkntoken.io

