Rewardiqa

White Paper
“ Efficiency Global Adoption of Cryptocurrencies “

Table Of Contents

Introduction

3

Our Principle

4

Market Overview

4

Problem Statement

5

Our Vision

6

What is Rewardiqa ?

Features of Rewardiqa

Disclaimer

8

10

Introduction
Welcome To Rewardiqa
As demonstrated by the success and growth of Blockchain-based distributed computing networks like
Bitcoin and Ethereum, the future of the Internet involves decentralized, efficient, inclusive, and global
ecosystems. Rewardiqa believes that blockchain-based platforms will be a critical foundation to global,
digital ecosystems.
The creation and integration of REW tokens into our reward platform reflect rewardiqa’s vision to fully
integrate blockchain technology into rewardiqa platform. At launch, rewardiqa will remain a centralized
platform, but the rewardiqa team is developing blockchain-based smart contracts that will decentralize
the process of creating and engaging in tasks in our platform, removing inefficiencies, and enabling our
users to engage directly with each other in an open and transparent platform powered by bitcoin & rew
tokens.
Ultimately, the Rew platform will seek to enable ways to earn rewards and compensation through gamified micro-tasks and other engagement tasks and freelance work from anywhere, at any time, on any
device, by:
1. Making it easier to find new opportunities
2. Making it easier to advance
3. Making it easier to engage, no matter what role a person is playing

3

Market overview
About Our Market
Micro Workers are ruling the world economy, So we’re backed by
them
According to the data from the Labor Force Survey and International Labor Organization, the estimated
market of micro-workers can vary a great deal, from a low estimate of at least 40 million according to the
World Bank Survey to an estimated 300 million in China alone. Most of these people come from developing countries where the labor markets are fragmented and unpredictable, pushing them to accept
minimal remuneration. Another 2011 report by InfoDev, assessing the development potential of digital
micro-work, shows that features within the micro-work system help make it especially accessible for
people from developing countries which in turn increases its appeal. Anyone with a smartphone that has
internet access is able to log on to micro-work platforms and engage in micro-work tasking
It is evident that there is a growing market for micro-work - defined as Human Intelligence Tasks (HITS)
broken down into micro-tasks that can be completed in seconds or minutes. Micro-tasks are defined as
small tasks that require human judgment, can be completed by humans independently over the internet,
and are part of a larger unified project. These micro-workers require basic numeracy and literacy skills, for
example, for image tagging, text transcription, and data entry. App or game testing , watch videos ,
Internet companies, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, ebay, and Linkedin have also optimized their production-ready solutions and enhanced their AI model training with micro-task workers. However, these
sites are currently based on a centralized organization and have raised a certain number of barriers that
slow down micro-work and make it more expensive.

Data are from various interent sources.

4

Main Problems
We discuss the existing challenges of our industry.

Micro-tasking has become increasingly popular over the years, but
thorny problems remain. Hence, rewardiqa developed the reward
platform to address the current challenges, namely:

Banking The Unbanked
Globally, more than two billion people worldwide do not have a bank
account or access to a financial institution via a mobile phone, or any
other device. Most micro-task workers are recruited in foreign markets which result in problems when it comes to payment - workers do
not have access to banking. According to the new Global Findex database, only 8% of adults in the developing world have access to bank
accounts. The difference widens, even more, when it comes to credit
cards; only 7% of adults in developing countries own credit cards.

Laborious Barriers
Furthermore, even for those in the labor pool who do have bank accounts, micro-task work is associated with practical problems such as
high fees of intermediary financial institutions, lost or otherwise affected payments, and lost checks, among other issues. The micro-task
workers in centralized systems are also faced with invasive, privacy
challenging, time-consuming, unclear signup and approval processes
that create market entry barriers.

Organizations are Inefficient and
Costly
Unsupervised human labor
by workers with relatively little education leads to human
error. Verifying the work of micro-workers has been automated
with sohware to some extent, but
there is still a somewhat clumsy
intermixing of human intervention. All of this drives up costs
and makes managing the platforms a challenge.
Spam
There have been many spam related activities on micro-tasking
platforms. Unethical companies
have engaged workers via these
platforms in order to push out
fake reviews and comments, create dummy accounts on social
networks to fill out lead generation forms, etc.

5

Low Rates Resembling Cheap Labor

Other Problems

“ It is an alarming problem, which we solve through blockchain &
dencetralized ledger technology ”
Micro-task workers usually earn below the minimum wage and are often paid inadequately for completed tasks. Many individuals from this
workforce have also claimed to be unfairly treated as they were represented as unskilled laborers who only deserve the minimum wage. On
Amazon’s Mechanical Turk (MTurk) payouts are atrocious and can even
be as low as $0. Requesters are also brazen enough to pay workers
compensation as low as $0.01 for tasks that actually take up to three
minutes which is an overall waste of the workers’ time.
we have created rewardiqa to solve all these issues , providing these
workers a chance to earn serious rewards in crypto for performing
easy & simple tasks such as installing apps and games , watching videos , and playing their favourite games , we believe that everyone
must have a chance to join this space, rewardiqa is created to make
your life better using the power of blockchain

Our Vision & Mission
Time and money equilibrium
Time connects us all irrespective of our origin or social rank. Time is
limited. Time is finite. We cannot retrieve or prolong time. In today’s
world, our time is mostly controlled externally. Time is controlled by
our jobs, our customers, our social obligations.
We believe that every person in this world has the right to be in control of their own time. Implementing this right is our vision.
Therefore, we aim to create an equilibrium between time and money.
We are establishing a global reward app for doing simple tasks. People
around the world will be able to make good money doing easy and
simple tasks such as watching videos & installing apps
Our mission is to give every person access to this opportunity no matter whether they come from a village in Vietnam, the outskirts of Berlin, or downtown Manhattan.
6

About Rewardiqa

Rewardiqa is a global Reward app that pays people to perform small tasks , Earn money wherever and
whenever you desire, earn cryptocurrency absolutly risk free , weither its bitcoin ethereum or our own
rewardiqa token
Introducing the REW Token
REW Token is an ERC-20 token based cryptocurrency that allows peer to peer mode of payment, exchange, and storage of value in a trustless manner (i.e. without relying on financial institutions such as
banks or governments for defining and controlling its value.
Deployed on the decentralized Ethereum blockchain, REW token offers quick, secure, and efficient transfer of value with confirmation speeds up to 12 times faster than Bitcoin. The currency would be used for
daily transactional activities happening within the Rewardiqa ecosystem and would serve as a store and
exchange of value between users in a secure, efficient manner at reduced costs.
We believe transactions should be fully transparent, and therefore all transactional activities happening within the Rewardiqa ecosystem are recorded on the Ethereum distributed ledger. This technology
would ensure that the Rewardiqa Reward platform is publicly audited and fair. It will provide transparency to sender and receiver and enable them to track their transactions on the Ethereum public ledger,
from the moment they make a transaction through the moment it goes to the final recipient.

Rewardiqa’s Principles
1. Effective global inclusion can only happen when all platforms participants can negotiate and settle
efficiently
2. The ability to earn and improve one’s condition is a basic human right
3. Efficiency is about respecting the most valuable resource of all, time

7

Features of Rewardiqa Platform
Security
Based on the latest smart contract technology of Ethereum blockchain, rewardiqa inherits all security
features provided by the Ethereum network. All transactional data is encrypted and resides on a decentralized.
The rewardiqa platform will accept payment in its native currency, REW (with discounts to incentivise its
use) and at normal rates with crypto currencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum. REW will also be used to
carry out payments in the platform. It’s important to point out that REW will be a utility token, and should
not be used for speculative purposes.

Decentralized
Unlike medium of accounts, there is not a single point of failure. All the transaction activities are open
and transparent to the whole community. Furthermore, the value is driven/controlled by the community
rather than centralized entities.

Easy Transactions
Users can transfer rewardiqa to anyone, anywhere in the world, as long as the recipient is connected to
the internet, in seconds.

Transparency
Blockchain technology provides open access to information at all times, thereby, ensuring a fully transparent process, accurate data records, and equal terms for everyone.

Privacy
Blockchain technology provides open access to information at all times, thereby, ensuring a fully transparent process, accurate data records, and equal terms for everyone.

8

Token Information
Name : REWARDIQA
Symbol : REW
Token Standard : ERC-20 Token
Features : Utility token
Token exchange rate : 0.001 ETH per 1 REW (i.e. 1000 REW per 1 ETH)
Planed listing on exchanges : 05-13 February 2020
smart contract : 0x3ffffa8f3cc943e43f9f17a83cbb18f4bbb9f4ac
Token supply : 21 billion
The number of rewardiqa tokens will be strictly limited. no more REW tokens will be ever
issued

Support various Wallets
Rewardiqa supports a variety of digital wallets e.g. MyEtherWallet,
Mist, Metamask etc.

9

Disclaimer
The present document serves to outline the planned project and has no
binding effect. Although the team have set themselves the target of implementing the project, we cannot contractually promise specific project
goals and purposes of use with regard to the REW tokens. All statements
made in this document are to be exclusively understood as outlines of
ideas, are non-binding, and do not claim to be either complete or correct.
The reception and use of tokens is associated with a maximum risk, which
is why we ask you to support the project financially only if you have read
and accepted the risk disclosures and the general terms and conditions
available under www.rewardiqa.com

