SAFE
CAPITAL
DECENTRALIZED FINANCE ECOSYSTEM
WHITEPAPER

20

Introduction
Blockchain is at a crucial turning point. After years of
progress developing the protocol layers of today's
major crypto ecosystems, the promise of mainstream
adoption is fading in the distance.
After all, blockchain was supposed to bring a fair,
transparent, and decentralized financial reality to not
only crypto enthusiasts, but everyone.
A decade on from Bitcoin's inception, and the retaillevel crypto products one would have hoped to see by
now are nowhere to be found. Blockchain can disrupt
any and every vertical in existence, so why hasn't it?
People the world over have daily interactions with
traditional financial products. If those very products
were simplified via a blockchain ecosystem and
designed for use by anyone, wouldn't that be a
powerful thing?
At SafeCapital, we think it is. That's why we've built a
blockchain-based decentralized financial (DeFi)
ecosystem that is easy, smart, and simple.

30

Mission + Vision
To some, a decentralized financial ecosystem that is
fair, transparent, fast, and user-friendly might sound
like a far away dream.
However, the SafeCapital team believes dreams are
invitations to do the impossible.
That's why we've rolled all of blockchain's advances
along with novel in-house engineered innovations to
create one complete DeFi suite of investment products.
The SafeCapital vision is about financially enabling
anyone in the world to participate in the global
economy with nothing more than a smartphone and
internet connection.
You may be asking why? The answer is simple. Greater
financial access at a retail-user level makes DeFi a
reality for everyone, whereas traditional financial
products only enable experienced investors and the
wealthy to participate.
Cryptocurrency is a powerful but widely
misunderstood tool. SafeCapital's aim is take what is
amazing about crypto and make it as easy to interact
with as you do email, sending a text message, or
paying for a coffee.

40

The problem
Investing in traditional
assets is an uphill battle
At the retail level, when people
decide to make investments, they're
faced with a tall order.
Buying into traditional assets like
securities (stocks), real estate, and
gold requires dealing with
brokerages, firms, and licenses.
Handling your own investments is
often impossible owing to accredited
investor requirements, and when such
requirements aren't present,
prohibitively steep buy-in amounts
are.
Buying stock in a traditional company
like Berkshire Hathaway costs
thousands of dollars since one can't
buy a partial share. Securities require
complete buy-ins, meaning it's an all
or nothing game.
The same mentality and infrastructure
is carried over to venture capital
investments. Unless you are a partner
at a VC firm or possess market-moving
capital, you're in no position to
partake in a startup's early funding
rounds.

Being left out of the venture capital
fun means having no recourse to
participate in the next Airbnb or
Facebook. The lack of a means for
including the retail investment crowd
perpetuates the disparity between the
haves and have nots.
Finally, traditional investing is above
and beyond anything else a system
for enabling intermediaries to remain
in power. Do we really need a broker
between us and an investment?
The answer is no, and SafeCapital
can show you why.

50

Our solutions
Decentralized finance for
unstoppable investments
SafeCapital is a platform for
unhindered decentralized finance.
Whereas traditional investing relies
on centralized firms, services, and
brokers (along with their fees, rules,
and roadblocks), SafeCapital's DeFi
platform gives you complete freedom
to pursue the best investments for
you.
We achieve this by building our
solutions atop the SafeCapital
blockchain, a fully decentralized
network secured and incentivized
by game-changing masternodes.
In total, SafeCapital offers eight
modular products which can be used
alone or combined as per your
investment needs. Each of these
products enables you to pursue and
accomplish such diverse investments
as crowdfunding your new project,
investing in traditional assets such as
stocks and commodities, and
seamlessly exchanging
cryptocurrencies in the blink of an
eye.

Since every investment operation is
easily completed using our
blockchain-based DeFi
platform, there is no need to resort
to an intermediary.
SafeCapital makes the days of
middlemen numbered by giving
everyone in the world a simple and
easy to use tool for financial inclusion.
Centralized financial institutions have
hoarded the tools for financial wellbeing all too themselves for ages.
With SafeCapital's suite of financial
products, all of that is set to change
forever.

60

SafeCapital Exchange
Built to the highest standards using military-grade
security and blazing-fast transaction speeds.
Cryptocurrency exchanges are the financial gateways into the global
economy of tomorrow. The speed with which cryptocurrency assets have grown,
going from a total valuation of less than million dollars nearly $1 trillion in 2018
shows just how important exchanges really are.
After years of market research, the SafeCapital development team engineered its
own exchange which picks up where others have left of. Gone are the days of slow
connections, missed trades, and security breaches amounting to billions of dollars
stolen or lost.
SafeCapital Exchange processes 10,000+ transactions per second while
simultaneously enabling over 1,000,000 unique connections at once. At these
speeds, trading truly occurs in real time.
However, while speed is important, SafeCapital Exchange's true innovation lies in
security. We've implemented military grade security and enterprise grade
infrastructure to deliver an airtight trading experience that is both safe from
hackers and defends against stolen funds.
Crucially, we keep 96% of all exchange funds in cold storage. The vast majority of
compromised assets have been lost due to hot wallet storage. Owing to that, we
see airgapped cold-storage in multisig wallets with geographically distributed
keys as the safest way forward.

70

Runway IEO Platform
Initial Exchange Offerings give innovative projects
and savvy investors a way to join forces.
In 2018, Initial Exchange Offerings (IEO) emerged in relative silence. By the
following year, IEOs had completely restructured the way we think about
crowdfunding the world's best cryptocurrency projects. Like the ICOs which came
before them, IEOs give the world a way to directly invest in the projects that matter
the most.
The problem with ICOs, however, was that they came with no oversight, and could
therefore appear and disappear with little regulatory architecture in place.
SafeCapital's mission is to deliver secure investment products to investors in a way
that gives investors everything they need to know up front.
SafeCapital Runway is an IEO platform that investors can trust. We routinely vet
every IEO project that comes across our desk before giving it the go-ahead to
participate in crowdfunding on the Runway. Due to our rigorous standards, we
only pass on the cream of the crop projects to investors using the Runway.
Runway IEOs are automatically available for trading on the SafeCapital Exchange,
giving them unmatched liquidity from the get go. Moving forward in this way gives
investors investment opportunities that are correlated to strong financial products
while also exposing those projects to a vast pool of capital.
The Runway is an IEO platform for the people. No need for investor credentials or
prohibitive financial requirements. Instead, anyone can invest as much, or as little,
as they are comfortable with.

80

CrowdFundr
The world is made up of more than just crypto projects.
Crowdfundr let's everyday businesses find the funding
they need.
In the cryptocurrency world, it's often easy to forget that there is more to the
business world than just digital currency projects. However, when we step out of our
homes and go out into the world, it's easy to see that most businesses are completely
unrelated to crypto.
Where do those businesses go when they need funding? They turn to banks and
receive unfair loan terms. In the end, businesses owe money to banks, and banks
profit from the exorbitant loan rates they set.
Kickstarter and GoFundMe have helped to develop a way for new businesses to bring
funding to their ideas, but they don't go far enough. Crowdfundr allows businesses,
new and old, to seek funding that is payable through cryptocurrency (SCAP).
Whereas prior crowdfunding platforms were primarily designed for new projects and
ideas to lift off the ground, Crowdfundr brings existing businesses into the mix. The
most immediate advantage to our model is it allows for a greater pool of liquidity from
which businesses can seek funding. Secondly, receiving micro-funding from people,
rather than banks, means favorable rates and less debt.
In the end, Crowdfundr is all about one thing: people helping people.

90

Shift Exchange
Trade crypto instantly and easily with Shift, an instant
digital asset exchange.
Sometimes, trading cryptocurrency can feel downright complicated. That's
because digital asset trading relies heavily on order books, buy and sell orders, stop
orders, market buys, and so on. Well, what if you don't want to deal with all of the
technical indicators and order books moving faster than you can blink?
SafeCapital Shift is the world's simplest exchange for instantly swapping
cryptocurrency assets. With Shift, you don't have to compete with other buyers at the
top of the order book. Instead, all there is to do is select the asset you want to buy,
choose the asset in your wallet that you're trading, and specify an amount.
Once done, a simple click of the 'shift' button swaps out your digital asset and
replaces it with the one you wanted. Shift between endless amounts of assets,
including our very own SCAP.
The uses of an instant crypto exchange are many. In certain cases, you need to get
trade for another asset as quickly as possible. Going to a traditional exchange takes
far too long, and there is no guarantee your buy/sell orders will get filled. Depending
on your experience and the price you ask, sometimes they may take days to fill, or not
at all.
Shift changes all of that by giving you an automatic cryptocurrency swap using the
best rates on the market. By connecting to the APIs of the world's largest and most
liquid exchanges, Shift always offers competitive exchange rates that can't be beat
for the speed and timeliness of the exchange.

01

Purveyor Trade Hub
Purveyor is the first blockchain-based tool for buying
and selling traditional stocks and commodities.
For blockchain supporters, missing out on traditional investments is a mistake. At
SafeCapital, we believe both cryptocurrency assets and traditional assets can coexist,
and in some cases, make each other better.
Purveyor is a one stop shop for buying and selling both commodities and and stocks.
Commodities such as gold, silver, and platinum are rare, valuable, and difficult to
purchase for the average person. Additionally, buying and storing them presents a
security risk since anyone can physically steal them from you.
Purveyor stocks and insures warehoused precious metals for you, meaning you've
got nothing to worry about other than buying and selling, while the platform takes
care of the rest. Instead of worrying over how to buy and where to store, Purveyor
assumes the risk and gives you peace of mind.
Trading stocks is just as simple. Purveyor will debut with 50 well-known financial
assets before increasing to 5,000+. Using BTC, ETH, or SCAP, you can trade stocks
without using a brokerage and less the hefty fees associated with them. Instead,
trading fees on Purveyor are low and paid in SCAP.

11

Autopilot Fund
Index and mutual funds have long been out of reach
for retail investors. Autopilot Fund changes that by
giving you a personalized, simple to use fund.
With the advances made by blockchain technology, there is simply no reason to
hand your investment decisions over to a mediated third party platform. Instead,
Autopilot Fund is a programmable DApp that allows you to customize your
investments according to your needs as they change.
Typically, to participate in an index/mutual fund or ETF, you buy the investment
product from a fund manager and let them handle the rest. That's great if you have
the the money, but such services are prohibitively expensive.
Autopilot Fund uses an incredibly simple interface to give you programming power
over the shape and form of your very own cryptocurrency investment fund. For
example, AutoPilot can automatically buy, sell, rebalance, and hedge your portfolio
according to the rules you set.
Perhaps you want to split your portfolio evenly between four assets (BTC, ETH, LTC,
SCAP) and have them weighted at an even 25% each. As market prices for each asset
vary, their weights in your portfolio change. Autopilot Fund automatically detects
these changes in real time, then rebalances the entire portfolio by selling better
performing assets and buying those with less weight in the portfolio.
This approach lowers risk, keeps your portfolio diversified, and means greater
savings over time.

21

Decentralized Charity
Crypto has long been used as a means for financial
gain. What if we used it to make the world a better
place? Blockchain-based donations on the SafeCapital
network do just that.
If you held Bitcoin from 2009 to now, your gains are upwards of 10,000%. That is a
life changing amount of money. Now, imagine changing the life of those in need by
giving forwarding them decentralized donations in either BTC or SafeCapital's native
SCAP currency.
SafeCapital's decentralization charity platform is built on the premise that blockchain
and donations go hand in hand. One of the first questions anyone asks when making
a donation is: But how do I know where the money is going? As much as we all want
to give to charity, making sure it ends up in the right hands is a tough task.
Blockchain takes the wonder out of the equation. As a decentralized public ledger
that keeps every transaction permanently on the record, blockchain is the perfect
vehicle for transparent donations.
The SafeCapital charity platform works similarly to our Runway IEO platform, except
that instead of pitching IEOs, charity's will pitch their cause to potential donors. Think
of GoFundMe crossed with Binance's Launchpad, with the result being our charity
platform.
Additionally, if you or a loved one have a cause in need of assistance due to
circumstances such as illness, then you have a powerful platform that harnesses the
goodwill of crowds around the world.

31

Blockchain Metrics
SafeCapital features several innovative design choices which make our
blockchain optimal for high throughput performance, impenetrable
security, and scalability.
1. Algorithm – Quark
2. Consensus – Proof of stake + Masternodes
3. Staking reward – 10% ROI
4. Masternode collateral – 1,000.00019 SCAP (locked for first year)
5. Masternode reward – 90% ROI
6. Block generation – 60 seconds, difficulty retargeting per block
7. Block reward - 0.2 - 6.2 SCAP

Tokenomics
SCAP, the native utility token of the SafeCapital network, is built into the
platform at the protocol level. It is used in every operation across the
SafeCapital ecosystem while also having a low maximum supply to
encourage scarcity, value, and its viability as a long-term investment.
1. Token – SafeCapital
2. Ticker – SCAP
3. Max supply – 10,100,000 SCAP
4. Crowdfund type – SCAP available for sale directly on Exchange
5. Swap – X SINS = 1 SCAP. SINS to SCAP swap requires masternode
6. Masternode token lockup – Yes
7. Inflation type – Low inflation to start, decreasing over time
8. Token burn - Quarterly token burn to lower supply/increase scarcity

41

Token Distribution
Reserve fund
10%

Operation Team
4%
5% Advisors
3%

Marketing
21%

Token burn
10%

Swap
20%

Development
27%

51

SafeCapital Masternodes

IF YOU DON’T FIND A WAY
TO MAKE MONEY WHILE
YOU SLEEP, YOU WILL
WORK UNTIL YOU DIE.

Warren Buffet

Our innovative masternodes feature
the industry's best tech + features

SCAP is the first
masternode coin
to lock collateral
for the first year
Earning a passive income is the dream, but discovering the
means to do so can be tricky. However, becoming a
SafeCapital masternode operator helps you earn money
while you sleep, and also immensely benefits the network.
In other words, SafeCapital masternodes are a win-win.
Additionally, our innovative masternode structure is the
first of its kind, ever. Your masternode collateral of
1,000.00019 SCAP is locked for a one year duration,
meaning token values will remain stable, and the network
will properly incentivize all users.
This revolutionary design makes SafeCapital an advanced
network and the SCAP token anti-inflationary. Additionally,
SafeInsure users who swap SINS to SCAP at a parity rate of

X:1 will be required to operate a masternode.

SafeCapital masternode rewards begin at 90% ROI, which
is an industry high when compared to Dash, PIVX, and
Zcoin. Think of our masternode program as a savings
account that nearly doubles your investment as it works for
you.
Our masternodes are being meticulously developed and
will be released in three stages.

61

Masternodes

71

BLOCK REWARD

BLOCK #

REWARD BLOCK
PREMINE

MASTERNODE/STAKING REWARD

1 - 210

0.2

90%/10%

211 - 10800

0.3

90%/10%

10801 - 21600

0.4

90%/10%

32401 - 43200

0.5

90%/10%

43201 - 54000

0.6

90%/10%

SafeCapital rewards are amongst the highest in the cryptocurrency
B U D G E Twhen compared
E S T I M A Tto
E Dprojects
D A T E such as Dash, PIVX, Blocknet, and
industry
NEXT STEPS
REMAINING
OF COMPLETION
Zcoin. SafeCapital offers the highest ROE for MN operators and stakers.
Regarding staking rewards, SafeCapital offers higher rewards than the
leading staking platforms such as ICON, NEO, and Qtum. Additionally,
Ethereum 2.0's 2020 proof of stake release will see the staking rewards set
to 4%, which is far lower than those earned by SafeCapital stakers.
Additionally, masternode operators who own 3+ masternodes qualify for
special rewards which boost significantly boost their ROE:
3 MN - 2% bonus on total amount
5 MN - 3% bonus on total amount
10 MN - 7% bonus on total amount
15 MN - 10% bonus on total amount

81

Roadmap
SafeCapital's exciting future on the horizon
The SafeCapital team is tirelessly shipping code to bring the community
the world's most advanced blockchain-based financial ecosystem. Join
us on this journey as we make partnerships, announcements, and bring
dApps forward that iterate the very best of #DeFi.

Q2 2019
Final project planning phase
Development team assembled
Business development team assembled

Q3 2019
Blockchain closed testnet
Blockchain beta launch
White paper draft
Dev team expansion + beta product testing

Q4 2019
SCAP token emission + block reward allocations
SafeCapital mainnet launch
Website + wallet release
Whitepaper release
SCAP exchange listings + CMC listing
Masternode monitor listing + marketing campaign

Q1 2020
Team expansion
Website updates + block explorer
Global marketing campaign
Additional major exchange listings
SCAP token burn program launch

Q2 2020
Mainnet v2 upgrade
SCAP-funded dApp incubator launch
SafeCapital DeFi dApps launch

91

Roadmap II
SafeCapital's exciting future on the horizon
Q3 2020
Masternode monitoring tool for iOS + Android release
SafeCapital Exchange testnet
Runway IEO platform testnet
Ledger support for SCAP token

Q4 2020
Autopilot Fund testnet
Shift Exchange testnet
Multi-currency platform becomes native app for iOS + Android
Exchange code audit
SafeCapital Exchange penetration test

Q1 2021
SafeCapital DeFi Ecosystem launch
SafeCapital Exchange public launch
Runway IEO platform public launch
Crowdfundr dApp testnet
Decentralized Charity dApp testnet

Q2 2021
Shift Exchange public launch
dApp code audits
Major exchange listings
SCAP token added to Delta + Blockfolio

Q3 2021
Crowdfundr dApp public launch
Decentralized Charity dApp public launch

Q4 2021 + Beyond
Autopilot Fund platform release
Purveyor Trade hub platform release
SafeCapital Exchange amongst top five global exchanges
SafeCapital Exchange BTC futures contracts
SafeCapital Exchange margin trading

