DECENTRALIZED
INSURANCE
FOR THE BLOCKCHAIN ERA
WWW.SAFEINSURE.IO

CONTENTS
ABSTRACT
INTRODUCTION
STATISTICS
THE PROBLEM
FRAUD
PAPER TRAILS
FRICTION
ONE SIZE FITS ALL
LACK OF SELF-SERVICE
IRRELEVANCE
SAFEINSURE PLATFORM
INDIVIDUALLY TAILORED
PARTNERSHIPS
MASTERNODES
SAFEINSURE COIN
COIN DISTRIBUTION
WALLET

2

3
3
4
5
6
6
7
7
8
9
9
9
10
11
11
12
13

ABSTRACT
Safeinsure is a decentralized insurance marketplace bringing equitable price
discovery and global access to insurance policy shoppers worldwide. SafeInsure
puts power back into the hands of consumers with an honest, accountable, and
democratic insurance marketplace on a high-performance blockchain.
In a first for the insurance industry, SafeInsure will provide an access point
between policymakers and consumers with great modularity and bespoke options
in an instantaneous and nearly feeless manner without controlling intermediaries.
Using the SafeInsure Marketplace, customers will piece together custom insurance
options for themselves according to their needs without having to pay for features
and options they don’t require.
The SafeInsure blockchain is securitized by masternodes, creating a financial
incentive for node operators to safeguard the network and keep it as decentralized
as possible.
Masternodes will also function as a secondary source of revenue for insurance
policy providers as they can become masternode operators using the income they
generate on the SafeInsure marketplace.

INTRODUCTION
Long ago, ancient merchant ships trading the seven seas would pool resources
together to cover one another if that one of their ships would sink and lose its
cargo.
This archaic form of insurance is still in effect today, and the vestiges of these old
policies are seen everywhere. Best practices protecting against insurance fraud
are absent, resulting in artificially high premiums to policy consumers. Claims,
payments, and contracts are all still done on paper and by telephone resulting in
erroneous information, lost data, and network inefficiencies. These inefficiencies
and long settlement times are all passed down to the consumer who pays a higher
and higher
premium for each mistake.

THE INTRODUCTION OF BLOCKCHAIN
TECHNOLOGY MEANS THESE REMNANTS OF
THE PAST CAN NOW STAY THERE, AND WITH
SAFEINSURE, THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY CAN
FINALLY EVOLVE.
3

SafeInsure harnesses blockchain technology to create a new digital accountability
network for insurance buyers and providers, initiating a new era in which our
distributed ledger technology can keep both consumer and provider utterly
accountable without the need for an intermediary. With transparency, honesty,
and accountability guaranteed by an intermediary-free network, the SafeInsure
marketplace can bring competitive price discovery and modular insurance plans to
consumers worldwide.

STATISTICS
THE AMOUNT OF FRAUDULENT INSURANCE
CLAIMS, RESULTING IN $80 BILLION LOSSES/
YEAR

10%
THE AMOUNT OF AMERICANS WHO TRUST
INSURANCE COMPANIES

7%
OF INSURANCE COMPANIES WHO BELIEVE
BLOCKCHAIN IS IMPORTANT

10%
OF INSURANCE COMPANIES DON’T HAVE A PLAN
IN PLACE TO RESPOND TO BLOCKCHAIN

7%
$1.2T
THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF INSURANCE PREMIUMS
PAID IN 2017

4

THE PROBLEM
The insurance industry as it stands today is faced with mounting issues. These
issues have laid dormant for years, but time can no longer cover them up.
According to the most recent PwC report on the insurance industry, massive
changes brought on by disruptors such as SafeInsure are inevitable.

A HIGHER PERCENTAGE OF INSURANCE
CEOS THAN THOSE IN ANY OTHER
INDUSTRY ARE EXTREMELY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE THREATS TO THEIR GROWTH
PROSPECTS FROM THE SPEED OF
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, CHANGING
CUSTOMER BEHAVIOR AND
COMPETITION FROM NEW MARKETS.
THE ENTIRE INSURANCE BUSINESS
MODEL IS BEING DISRUPTED. AT PWC’S
FINANCIAL SERVICES AUDIT AND RISK
COMMITTEE FORUM, ONE-THIRD OF
INSURANCE ATTENDEES CITED
TECHNOLOGY AND CUSTOMERS’
EXPECTATIONS FOR 24-HOUR SERVICE
AS THE MOST DISRUPTIVE FORCES ON
THE INSURANCE BUSINESS.1
Currently, the insurance industry is facing intense pressure to adapt to new modes
of uptime, evolving customer preferences in regards to the packages of insurance
they consume, and the need for cheaper operating costs.
To this end, Accenture, a Fortune 500 global management consulting company, has
identified that the greatest source of disruption heading from the insurance industry
is coming from blockchain2.

5

LEGACY INDUSTRY BUSINESSES ARE
DINOSAURS IN A WORLD THAT HAS
LONG SINCE OUTPACED THEIR ANCIENT
HABITS.
The ancient habits of insurance giants may seem elusive at first, but once we take
a deeper look, we realize that they are problems many of us deal with all too often.
The following are major problems of the legacy insurance industry along with
SafeInsure Solutions.

FRAUD
The insurance industry is rife with fraud and has no effective plan to combat it.
Instead, major companies accept fraud as a fact of doing business and hike up
insurance premiums to cover their losses. In recent years, 10% of all insurance
claims were found to be fraudulent, totaling in losses over $80 billion/year in the
USA alone. Globally, this figure is much higher.
SafeInsure’s blockchain solution stops fraud in its tracks by making is impossible.
Rather than store user data and claims across centralized systems and on paper,
SafeInsure stores all policies, claims, provenance, and ownership authenticity
documents on a decentralized, tamper-proof blockchain.
The SafeInsure blockchain can be queried at any moment to deliver factual data
that mitigates the possibility of fraud. Billions of dollars in losses are avoided using
the SafeInsure solution, bringing insurance premiums down for our users, and
making insurance policies much more fair and accessible to all.

PAPER TRAILS
The insurance is an industry steeped in endless pages of paper. Unfortunately, this
habit doesn’t seem primed to end at any point soon, either. Insurance giants’
dependence on paper is so severe that it is often the reason behind long delays in
service, missing records, inaccurate and exorbitant fees, and other inconveniences
small and large.
Payments between insurers that are initiated by clients such as car companies with
claims against each other are normally handled with paper payments such as cash,
check, or an electronic transaction with a huge paper trail behind it.
By using SafeInsure’s blockchain solution, all of these inefficiencies are instantly
remedied in a paperless, direct way that involves a total of zero intermediaries.

1
2

6

https://www.pwc.com/us/en/industries/insurance/library/top-issues.html
https://insuranceblog.accenture.com/ultimate-guide-to-blockchain-in-insurance

Suppose Company X has a claim against Company Y. Company Y’s insurance
brokers the payment and sends along a check to Company X’s insurance company,
and much later, Company X receives compensation. In between, there is a
mountain of bureaucracy, routing, time, and ultimately, friction.
Using SafeInsure, Company Y pays Company X’s claim directly via a digital
blockchain transaction that happens instantly, is immutably recorded by the
SafeInsure blockchain, and is publicly auditable so that all parties involved are
satisfied with the honesty of the entire procedure. No paper, no complicated trails
of employees in offices spread around the globe, and no centralized agency to
deal with. Instead, everything happens in the blink of an eye and in an indisputably
trustful manner.
Welcome to the age of insurance autonomy, brought to you by SafeInsure.

FRICTION
The analog operating systems of legacy insurance giants add up to an untold
amount of friction in daily operations. Simply put, when even the smallest
operational details have a minute amount of friction in them, the larger operations
are doomed to be extremely inefficient.
Let’s use the claims process as an example. Without SafeInsure’s blockchain
solution, the claims process is not only non-transparent, but it is hidden behind
walls of administrative tape so thick that to get answers regarding the status of
your claim requires calls made to different departments, employee schedules, who
remembers what, and finding a specific page of paper that “never made it into the
system.”
Anyone who has dealt with insurance companies due to car accidents, injuries,
homeowner issues, and other unfortunate incidents know just how much the very
companies that are supposed to help us in times of need become the source of a
new type of frustration when we need it least.
SafeInsure ends the era of friction and brings forward a new paradigm, one of
efficiency. With our blockchain solution, every step of every claims process is
indisputably recorded on our blockchain and is observable 24/7. This way, if you
need a bit of information regarding the status of your claim, or need to recall
information from a past case, you can do so automatically and without waiting by
the phone for a call that never arrives.

ONE SIZE FITS ALL
The insurance industry thinks everyone is the same. That is why their practice of
having a “one size fits all” policy is the industry standard. Fortunately, times are
changing rapidly and people everywhere understand that what works for their
neighbor doesn’t necessarily work for them.

7

Risk assessment, product packaging, and ratings are all generated from
accumulated data that looks at big numbers rather than individual people. The
obvious problem with this arrangement is that people end up with insurance
policies that don’t fit them at all.
Think of going to a shoe store and being sold the same size shoe as everyone else
that came in. The shoe store doesn’t make another size because they seem to think
that everyone can make the same size work.
Well, that isn’t the case.
Today, consumers demand modular, custom options that fit their lifestyle and not
that of people halfway around the world. Instead of going to the one-size fits all
shoe store, consumers are demanding personalized service and a product that is
molded and tailored to their specific needs.
SafeInsure’s Policy Marketplace is the bespoke insurance tailor that the world
needs. With SafeInsure’s marketplace, customers can add and drop everything
they need and whatever they don’t, creating a unique policy that fits them like a
glove. Apart from being suited exactly to your needs, the policy you create on the
SafeInsure Marketplace will come in at a significantly more affordable price than
off-the-shelf options.

LACK OF SELF-SERVICE
Have you ever wished that you could skip the digital queues, skip the call center
representative, and get straight to the point when looking for information on your
policy?
Perhaps you’ve often wondered why there is so much unnecessary infrastructure
between you and your policy. Usually, the online portal provided by your insurance
company doesn’t answer all of your questions and requires signing into multiple
locations, talking to support staff, and tracking down obscure information in a longforgotten page.
Once you finally get the information you need, making the change is another story.
Since the change you’re after will almost certainly require someone’s time, you can
be sure that an administrative fee will be tacked on to your next bill.
SafeInsure ends this frustrating chapter with the SafeInsure Portal. Our UI
experience is designed to keep you securely in control in such a way that you can
handle every change to your service yourself and at no extra cost.
How is this done? Blockchain technology brought a new type of contract with it smart contracts. Think of smart contracts as tiny programs that are triggered when
certain conditions are met and execute their intended function instantly and without
fail. That means zero downtime and 100% reliability when you need it most.

8

For instance, if you need to change a policy detail, you can simply log in to your
SafeInsure Portal, select your policy, and toggle the options in the policy toolbox.
When you’ve given the OK to the change, the smart contract in charge of that
change will automatically go into effect and do instantly do the work that used to
take an entire company of people to handle.

IRRELEVANCE
Insurance companies are notoriously irrelevant. They don’t stay on top of customer
needs, and because of that, they simply don’t know what you need. People’s lives
change. We age, marry, move, retire, change professions, and have unexpected
events occur. Insurance companies pick up on these details late or, as is often the
case, not at all.
The result is insurance that is outdated by the speed of our very own lives. When
your insurance is outdated, the policies handed to you are irrelevant , and that is a
major concern. If your policy does not attend to your specific of-the-moment life
needs, then in a sense, you aren’t actually covered at all.
Blockchain-based insurance policies by SafeInsure providers stay as connected as
you need them to be. Using your SafeInsure Portal, toggle the information you’d like
your policy to know so that as it changes, so too does your policy.
We call this adaptive form of insurance SafeInsure - your insurance is always with
you.

SAFEINSURE
PLATFORM
The SafeInsure solution relies on uniquely developed blockchain technology based
on masternodes.
Essentially, SafeInsure makes tailored insurance options without the baggage we’ve
unfortunately become accustomed to when using traditional solutions.
What this means is your insurance policies are:

INDIVIDUALLY TAILORED
The days of paying for one-size-fits-all insurance are over. With SafeInsure, build
your insurance with exactly what you need and nothing you don’t . In practice, the
way it works is simple. Enter your SafeInsure Portal and register your information.
Toggle your preferences to construct the insurance product you’ve been dreaming
of.
9

Once finished, our blockchain systems will pass your information through risk
assessment. At the end of this quick process, your custom product portfolio will
ship out to our providers who will compete with each other to deliver the product
you want at an extremely affordable rate. Insurance products offered on SafeInsure
come without the bloat - giving you a lean product and leaner pricing.
After you’ve selected the right policy for you, pay for your policy using our native
coin, SINS. Your payment is processed instantly with all of its information posted to
the SafeInsure blockchain.
Once finished with your payment, you’re officially insured on the blockchain!

SIGN UP

1

SUBMIT APPLICATION

2

COMPLETE RISK
ASSESSMENT

3

PAYMENT

4

RECEIVE QUOTES

5

6

BLOCKCHAIN
INSURANCE POLICY

PARTNERSHIPS
Partnerships are the essence of growth, but unfortunately, legacy insurance
providers haven’t caught on to this key fact. In sharp contrast to traditional
insurance verticals, SafeInsure is tirelessly working behind the scenes to onboard as
many partners as possible. The reason for this is simple: With more partners comes
more competition for your business, and with more competition comes better
pricing.
We aggressively pursue partnerships because of our untiring dedication to bringing
you the best insurance plans at the leanest prices. With the SINS you save from
switching to SafeInsure, you’ll be able to start a masternode and generate passive
income for yourself.

10

MASTERNODES
Keeping your information private is a massively important cornerstone of the
SafeInsure blockchain platform. Traditional insurance providers take your valuable
data and, instead of using it to give you better service, pass it on to third parties
who use your data in ways that don’t benefit you at all. In essence, your data
providers insurance companies with a second stream of revenue that has nothing
to do with delivering better service to you.
SafeInsure makes that impossible with the use of masternodes. SafeInsure
masternodes are, in essence, decentralized nodes which host a wallet containing a
collateralized amount of SINS.
These collateralized nodes perform several tasks including:
· Adding privacy layers to transactions
· Increasing network transaction speeds
· Allowing masternode owners governance rights in the network
· Providing a financial incentive for node operators by giving a return on
investment (ROI) for transactions validated
SafeInsure masternode operators receive a passive income for accomplishing the
work of securing the network. The amount of collateral and masternodes owned
determine your ROI.
Furthermore, SafeInsure incentivizes insurance policy providers to use our
blockchain platform by giving them the option of using their SINS revenue to
operate masternodes of their own. In this way, insurance companies will earn a
revenue from selling custom policies to our users, and they will earn additional
revenue from using their marketplace income to operate masternodes that generate
ROI.

SAFEINSURE COIN
The SafeInsure platform operates using SINS: an indispensable, protocol-layer coin
necessary for every action using SafeInsure. SINS are required for every ransaction
and every instance in which a smart contract is executed. Furthermore, asternodes
require a collateral held in SINS. SINS are, therefore, integral in the everyday
operation of the platform.

11

Importantly, SINS will not be sold in a presale, pre-ICO, or ICO. Instead, we will
distribute SINS on exchanges, creating an instantly liquid source for the coins
wherein users can purchase the requisite amount of SINS for the policies they
want to purchase.

Algorithm

Quark

Type

POS + Masternode

Max coin supply

21,000,000 SINS

Block generation

60 seconds

COIN DISTRIBUTION
The SafeInsure coin distribution event places a premium on research, development,
and adoption. These three points are the pillars of SafeInsure’s forward-looking
approach, buoyed by additional funding for other key areas such as legal counsel,
operating costs, and business partnership development. With a balanced coin
distribution model, SafeInsure sets the foundation for success.

Fasten Adoption
Promo

2%

8%

Business
Partners

20%

Dev, Founder,
Team

5% Advisior

30%

Development
& Research

Leagal
Advisor

5%

10%

Operational
Cost

12

20%

Marketing
& PR

WALLET
Our SafeInsure Wallet is built to securely store your SINS for two main purposes.
1. Securely store SINS for insurance policy payments
2. Hold collateralized SINS for masternode operation
3. Receive passive income from masternode operation
With these critical use cases in mind, we’ve developed a simple, ironclad, beautiful
wallet available on every major operating system.

13

FIND US
SafeInsure has a presence on every major social media channel out there. We want
to make it easy for you to connect with us and ask any questions you may have to
make sure that SafeInsure is right for you.

Join the discussion at:

c

https://discord.gg/7rDuEwm

"# https://twitter.com/SafeInsure

14

11

https://www.facebook.com/pg/SafeInsure-229426447729311/

0

https://github.com/safeinsure/sins-coin

WWW.SAFEINSURE.IO

