The world’s first blockchain
powered marketplace for the
sharing economy. One way to pay
for sharing everything, no matter
what it is or where you are.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Disclaimer
This document is a technical Whitepaper
setting out the current and future developments of the ShareRing platform and
the ShareRing ecosystem. An integral
aspect of the ShareRing ecosystem is
the issuance and usage of the crypto-token known as the ShareToken.
This Whitepaper is for information purposes only and is NOT A STATEMENT
OF FUTURE INTENT.
Unless expressly specified otherwise,
the products, services and innovations
detailed in this Whitepaper are currently under development and are not currently deployed. The Promoters of this
Whitepaper and all persons associated
with its publication specifically make no
warranties or representations as to the
successful development, implementation or deployment of any technologies
and innovations, or achievements of any
other activities noted in this Whitepaper.
The Promoters of this Whitepaper and
all persons associated with the preparation and/or publication of this Whitepaper each disclaim to the fullest extent
permitted by law any and all warranties
implied by law.
No person is entitled to rely on the
information detailed in this Whitepaper or any inferences drawn from this
Whitepaper, including in relation to any
interactions with the ShareToken or the
technologies mentioned in this Whitepaper. The Promoters of the Whitepaper and all persons associated with the
preparation and/or publication of this
Whitepaper each disclaim all liability for
any loss or damage of whatsoever kind
(whether foreseeable or not) which may

arise from any person acting on any information and/or opinions relating to the
ShareToken, the ShareRing platform or
the ShareRing ecosystem or any information which is made available in connection with any further enquiries, notwithstanding any negligence default or
lack of due care and skill.
THE PROMOTERS OF THE WHITEPAPER AND ALL PERSONS ASSOCIATED
WITH THE PREPARATION AND/OR
PUBLICATION OF THIS WHITEPAPER
TAKE NO RESPONSIBILITY NOR ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY
ERRORS THAT MAY BE CONTAINED IN
THE WHITEPAPER.
All information contained in this Whitepaper is derived from data obtained
from sources believed by the Promoters of the Whitepaper and all persons
associated with the preparation and/
or publication of this Whitepaper to be
reliable and is given in good faith. No
warranties or guarantees, or representations are made by the Promoters of the
Whitepaper and all persons associated
with the preparation and/or publication
of this Whitepaper with regard to the accuracy or completeness correctness or
suitability of the information presented.
Nothing in this Whitepaper should be
relied upon, and shall not confer rights
or remedies upon you or any of your
employees, creditors, holders of securities or other equity holders or any
other persons whether related to you or
not. Any opinions expressed reflect the
current judgement of the Promoters of
this Whitepaper. The opinions reflected
in this Whitepaper may change without

notice and the opinions do not necessarily correspond to the opinions of the
Promoters of the Whitepaper and/or any
persons associated with the preparation
and/or publication of this Whitepaper.
The Promoters of this Whitepaper do not
have any obligation to amend, modify or
update this Whitepaper or to otherwise
notify any reader or recipient of this
Whitepaper in the event that any matter
related or stated in this Whitepaper or
any opinion, projection, forecast or estimate detailed in this Whitepaper changes or subsequently becomes inaccurate.
The Promoters of the Whitepaper
and all persons associated with the
preparation and/or publication of this
Whitepaper do not have any responsibility or liability to any personal recipient (whether by reason of negligence,
negligent misstatement or otherwise,
arising from any statement, opinion or
information expressed or implied arising
out of contained in or derived from or
omission from this Whitepaper. Neither
the Promoters nor its advisers have independently verified any of the information, including the forecasts, prospects
and projections contained in this paper.
The Promoters of the Whitepaper and all
persons associated with the preparation
and/or publication of this Whitepaper do
not accept any liability that may arise out
of any information contained or implied
in this Whitepaper.
Each recipient of this Whitepaper is to
rely solely on its/his/her knowledge, investigation, judgement and assessment
of the matters which are the subject of
this Whitepaper and any information
which is made available in connection

with any further enquiries and such recipient must satisfy itself/himself/herself
as to the accuracy and completeness of
such matter.
While the Promoters of the Whitepaper and all persons associated with the
preparation and/or publication of this
Whitepaper have attempted to ensure
that statements of facts made in this
Whitepaper are accurate, all estimates,
projections, forecasts, prospects, expressions of opinion and other subjective judgements contained in this
Whitepaper are based on assumptions
considered to be reasonable as at the
date of this Whitepaper in which they
are contained and must not be construed as a representation that the matters referred to in this Whitepaper will
occur.
Problems can occur and as such all
recipients who act upon the contents
of this Whitepaper do so at their own
risk and fully assume the responsibility
for such action to the exclusion of the
Promoters of the Whitepaper and all
persons associated with the preparation and/or publication of this Whitepaper. Any plans, projections or forecasts
mentioned in this Whitepaper may not
be achieved due to multiple risk factors including without limitation defects
in technology development, legal and
regulatory exposure, market volatility,
sector volatility, corporate actions or the
unavailability of complete and accurate
information.

the inclusion of a hyperlink does not imply that the Promoters of the Whitepaper and/or any persons associated with
the preparation and/or publication of
this Whitepaper endorses, recommends
or approves any material on the linked
page or accessible from it. Such linked
websites must be accessed entirely at
the recipient’s own risk. The Promoters
of the Whitepaper and/or any persons
associated with the preparation and/or
publication of this Whitepaper do not
accept any risk or liability whatsoever to
any such material, nor for consequences
of its use.
This Whitepaper IS NOT AN OFFER
TO, and shall not be distributed or
disseminated to any citizens, nationals,
residents (tax or otherwise) and/or
green card holders of each of: (i) the
United States of America; or (ii) the
Peoples Republic of China

The Whitepaper may refer to a number
of hyperlinks to websites of entities
mentioned in this Whitepaper, however.
WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Disclaimer
There is no guarantee that the tokens
will retain or increase in value. Tokens
are not backed by any hard assets or
other credit nor is it a commodity in the
traditional sense of the word. As such
ShareToken and SharePay have no
intrinsic value and there is no
guarantee that they will hold any
particular value. Participants could
potentially lose all or part of the value of
the tokens.

The legal position and regulation of
tokens, distributed ledger technology
and blockchain technology is unclear
and unsettled. There is uncertainty as
to how and whether regulatory
authorities
may
apply
existing
regulation to tokens and such
technology and whether new laws and
regulations will be implemented
governing
tokens
and
such
technology.

The tokens are not designed to be, do
not have the purpose or effect of, and
are not intended to be securities,
currency, interests in a collective
investment
scheme,
shares,
debentures, ownership interests in the
Platform, right to participate in the
control, direction, decision-making or
management of the Platform, or carry
the right to profit, or receive income or
other returns of ShareRing Ltd or the
Platform.

Recipients of the White Paper
represent and warrant that the
distribution or dissemination of the
White Paper, or possession of the
White Paper by them, is not prohibited
or restricted in their jurisdiction.

The White Paper does not constitute
an offer or solicitation of an offer, in
particular an offer or solicitation of an
offer of securities.
The White Paper does not constitute
advice or a recommendation.
The WhitePaper hasn't been reviewed
or approved by any regulatory
authority.
The
publication,
distribution
or
dissemination of the White Paper does
not imply that applicable laws,
regulations or rules have been
complied with.

There are no known potential uses of
tokens outside the Platform.
At the time of publication, the tokens
cannot be traded on any exchange,
and we cannot guarantee that tokens
will be accepted for trading by any
exchange in the future.
The tokens should not be acquired for
speculative or investment purposes
with the expectation of making an
investment return .

The promoters of the White Paper
and all persons associated with it
disclaim all express and implied
representations
and
warranties,
including any representations or
warranties relating to ownership,
merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement of third
party rights, that the platform is
reliable, current, secure, error-free,
meets your requirements or is free of
viruses or other harmful components,
or that defects will be corrected.
No person has been or is authorised
to
give
any
information
or
representation not contained

This Whitepaper is only available on
https://sharering.network and may not
be distributed, reproduced or passed on
to any other person or published, in part
or in whole, for any purpose without
the prior written consent of the
Promoters. The manner of distribution
this Whitepa-per may be restricted by
law
or
regula-tion
in
certain
jurisdictions. Persons who possess this
Whitepaper must observe all such
restrictions.
By
accessing
this
Whitepaper,
the recipient agrees to be bound
by the above limitations detailed
in this disclaimer.

in this White Paper in relation to the
ShareRing ecosystem and tokens
and, if given, such information or
representation must not be relied
upon as having been authorised by
or on behalf of ShareRing Ltd.
There are risks associated with
mining attacks, hacking or other
security intrusions, and ma/function of
the Platform and/or the blockchain
technology.

The White Paper does not constitute a
contract or agreement and is not
legally binding. Any sale and purchase
of tokens is to be governed by a
separate legally binding agreement.
Persons should consult their own
legal, tax, finance or other professional
advisers before participating.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Abstract
The utility token
from ShareRing,
the developers of
an open-source
blockchain based
platform for the
sharing economy

ShareRing are the developers of the ShareLedger blockchain, a ‘smart
service system’ that makes it far easier on a global level for millions of
customers to access, and use on demand, a wide range of assets within
the fast-growing sharing economy. This newly emerging, but highly
fragmented industry, is currently worth over $100 billion. It is predicted to
grow to at least $335 billion by 20251.
ShareRing™ maintains it can be the Amazon of the sharing economy.
Why? Simple - ShareRing™ will enable you, and millions like you, to use a
single app that gives you access to any available asset you wish to rent,
borrow or share anywhere in the world at any time.
ShareRing™ has incorporated a number of core elements that together
create the smart sharing on-demand service system. These elements are:
A custom-designed distributed blockchain (ShareLedger), which
is already in development. ShareLedger will be harvesting one of
the most recent developments in blockchain technology, i.e. a dual
token mechanism. ShareToken (SHR) will be used as the utility token
of the platform, while the second token, SharePay (SHRP), will be
used as the currency for sharing services. If we were to think of this
as a running car, then the analogy would be that we are providing
both the fuel and the oil needed to run it, whereas most other companies and blockchain projects simply provide the fuel!
Aspects of a proven platform and API which are already being used
worldwide in the sharing economy.
A clever, integrated smartphone app
Ongoing mechanisms for creating a strong and growing network of
providers and users

1. Source: https://www.brookings.edu/research/the-current-and-future-state-of-the-sharing-economy

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The Market Place
ShareRing are
launching a
blockchain powered
market place for
the $100bn sharing
economy.

ShareRing are launching a blockchain powered marketplace for the
$100bn sharing economy. By using the ShareRing platform, anyone
can position themselves be the next Airbnb or Uber. Imagine being
able to use and sharing service globally, with 1 login, 1 payment
system, no foreign exchange fee’s, and a higher level of trust when
compared to any other sharing service available today.
One study by PriceWaterhouseCoopers (2016) showed the European sharing economy growing very quickly: “with transactions [on
platforms] almost doubling to £7.4bn in 2015” from £3.9bn in 2014.
PWC projected: “Going forward, we expect the UK’s sharing economy to expand at over 30% per year over the next decade, generating £18bn of revenue for platforms and facilitating about £140bn
worth of transactions per year by 2025.”
Source: https://www.pwc.co.uk/issues/megatrends/collisions/sharingeconomy/outlook-for-the-sharing-economy-in-the-uk-2016.html

Global growth for ShareRing will come from the implemenatation of
it’s two sided marketing plan that supports B2B and B2C. The global
community will be driven and nurtured by community managers, lead
by ShareRing’s Global Community Manager. Community managers
will be responsible for building community networks, driving the
education and expansion of the ShareRing community.
The Global Providers will be recruited to join the platform with a low
barrier to entry, making it easy to join the global directory immediately. They will then have options to expand their use of the ShareRing
marketplace features to engage more customers to use their assets.
The ShareRing business developement team lead by the Global
Sales Director, will target providers by vertical industries in strategic
target markets starting with HK & China, Australia, UK and North
America. A variety of european countries are also under review.

1. Source: https://www.brookings.edu/research/the-current-and-future-state-of-the-sharing-economy

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The Origin
Of ShareRing
Keaz is the genesis from which ShareRing was born.
Established mid-2013, Keaz is a global leader in white label car sharing
solutions with offices in Australia, Vietnam, Hong Kong, United States,
New Zealand and plans of expansion into Europe for 2018. Our core
technology, KeazACCESS, was released in May 2015 and now manages
and provides daily access to over 8000 people sharing vehicle assets
globally2. KeazACCESS is a powerful cloud- delivered ecosystem enabling
enterprises, governments, organisations, communities and individuals to
share and digitally access assets, as well as enhance mobility services
from anywhere in the world.
The KeazACCESS ecosystem addresses three hyper-growth global markets which are: (i) Vehicle & Passenger Mobility, (ii) the Sharing Economy,
and (iii) Internet of Things (IoT) integration. While Keaz has grown and
proven to be solving a real-world problem in the sharing economy, it is
still only a starting point. The market is still in its infancy and no single
company has fully capitalized on the full potential of it yet.

About the ShareRing
Development Team
Headed by our lead developer, Tony Doan, the dedicated and long-established ShareRing team of blockchain engineers, has won a number of
development related awards including, most recently, the prestigious top
prize at the May 2018 Blockchain Hackathon in Vietnam . The team currently consists of 5 experienced, full-time blockchain developers, a project
manager and a graphic designer. They were also heavily involved in the
initial development of the KeazACCESS platform API, so their experience
within the sharing economy and blockchain industry is unparalleled. The
team will be expanded to 15 full-time developers over the coming months.

That is why we have decided to take things to the next level.

2. Source: www.keaz.co

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The Problem
Can you name more than five companies that operate within the sharing
economy? There’s AirBnB, Uber, then you might draw a blank.

The Solution

Do a quick Google search and you might be surprised to find there are
thousands of companies around the world that operate within the sharing
economy. They offer sharing services including everything from apartments, tools, office space, storage, heavy equipment, caravans, camping
equipment, cars, meals, information and more. However, this has led to a
fragmented access to the overall sharing economy, with compartmentalised
services that, more often than not, vary widely in the manner in which one
may make use of them.

ShareRing™ not only provides the solution to these issues, but it also
offers additional benefits. The ShareLedger blockchain is a core component of this because it enables universal access to every asset attached
to the ShareRing™ smart system.

The inherent problem of gaining access is significant, and the following are
only some of the problems in the present state of the sharing economy:
Currently, providers are heavily segmented or operate only within very
small local markets.
Signing up for these ‘sharing economy’ companies is a huge hassle for
you. Each one has a different method to sign up and identify oneself
to gain access to their platform and ‘assets’.
The method through which you make sure you gain the asset, when,
where and in the form you want, is uncertain and at times complicated
If you’re travelling and wish to use one of these platforms, many
providers only allow access to local residents, or charge international
travellers in their local currency, creating frustration due to the additional bureaucracies and costs involved.
Finally, there’s the ‘trust’ issue. How do you know that the company
or individual provider is ethical and legitimate? What recourse do you
have if anything goes wrong? What about the database, is it secure,
is your privacy protected, will it still be online tomorrow? Trust is of
fundamental importance when it comes to sharing assets belonging to
third parties or services offered by such third parties, so we set out on
a singular mission: placing trust back where it belongs.

Four years ago, the founders of Keaz Limited conceived the idea of an
individual or organisation using just a single app to access any type of
asset anywhere and at any time to rent, borrow or share. However, at the
time, the task of creating an app with universal access seemed insurmountable due to the technological limits present back then. Therefore,
the founders of Keaz focused their efforts on becoming the #1 platform for
vehicle sharing globally. This they have done with resounding success.
Now with the introduction and global scale of blockchain technology, the
Keaz team is certain they can solve the issues holding the global sharing
economy back, while also bringing to fruition the initial vision the founders
had four years ago. The answer is ShareRing™.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Why Choose the
Sharing Economy?

Areas of ShareRing
Application

Oxford defines the Sharing Economy as an economic system in which
assets or services are shared between private individuals (either free
or for a fee), typically by means of the Internet. It is an economy built on
collaboration and on trust.

Below are just a few examples of areas where ShareRing™ will be used. ShareLedger, the platform that is based
upon our original KeazACCESS concept, is being further developed in a way that allows for the sharing of virtually
any asset, as outlined in the following list:

We’ve chosen to further develop and focus on the Sharing Economy
because it:
Reduces global footprints, offering greater social sustainability
Is in its infancy - Airbnb was founded only in 2008 and Uber in 2009!

Transport		

ShareLedger can be used for the rental of cars, trucks, scooters, trailers,
and even heavy vehicles.

Has a global reach

Delivery Drivers		

Using ShareLedger to facilitate booking and payment for delivery drivers.

Is experiencing rapid growth

Agriculture		

Garden sharing, seed swap, bee-hive relocation, etc.

Has multiple characteristics around asset identification, identity and
security that perfectly suit our blockchain platform

Finance			

Peer to peer lending

Food			

Food bank, social dining

Travel			

Tours, shared tour groups

Real Estate		

Airbnb, co-housing, co-living, Couchsurfing, shared office space, house swapping.

Time			

Labour, co-working, freelancing

Assets			

Book swapping, clothes swapping, fractional ownership, freecycling, toy libraries.

Transportation		

Car sharing, ride sharing, car-pooling, bicycle sharing, delivery company, couriers

Is multi-faceted, and has many product-market segments

Has multiple benefits for both asset providers and users.

And so much more!
WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Features and Benefits that
the ShareLedger blockchain
platform will provide over
traditional cloud/server
hosting sharing platforms
Quick and easy ‘sharing’ transaction validation.
Immutable records of data.
Additional attributes may be added to an account, such as ID
confirmation, rental history, asset ownership, etc.
SharePay (SHRP) is used by customers to pay for the rental of
assets. ShareToken (SHR) is used by providers to pay for their
access to the ShareLedger blockchain, including the addition
of assets, renting out of assets, adding attributes, adding smart
contracts, and other features.
A provider can earn SharePay by renting out their asset (ie. car),
and then use those tokens for example to rent an apartment, thanks
to the multi-industry application.
Earn additional tokens by hosting a node.
Custom ‘rules’ may be added to assets or wallets to allow for
various ‘sharing’ scenarios.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The ShareLedger
Blockchain Platform
When developing the ShareLedger blockchain platform, the development
team will leverage the experience and registered intellectual property
from the existing KeazACCESS framework by moving the relevant
components into a newly designed blockchain, as well as the team’s
extensive experience in blockchain technology in general.
The ShareLedger blockchain will be a dual token ledger. The reason
why we have chosen token-duality as a model for our system is that of
ensuring a stable ongoing service, with the price for the use of such
service determined for an indefinite period of time.
The ShareLedger will consist of the following primary elements:
SharePay (SHRP) – SharePay is the base currency that will allow users of
the ShareRing platform to pay for the use of third party assets.
ShareToken (SHR) – – ShareToken is the digital utility token that
drives sharing transactions to be written to the ShareRing ledger that is
managed by the ShareRing platform.

Account – This will be a standard account, which such an account being
represented by a 24-byte address. The account will contain 4 general
fields:
SHRP – SharePay token balance
SHR – ShareToken balance
ASSETS – linked/owned by the account (see below for definition of
an Asset)
ATTRIBUTES – Any additional attributes that are associated with
this account. These attributes may be updated or added by Sharing
Economy providers that utilise the ledger such as ID checks by
rental companies. These attributes may be ‘global’ (i.e. used by any
sharing providers) or ‘local’ (i.e. used by a specific sharing provider).
Assets – An asset represents a tangible real-world or digital asset that is
being shared, such as a car, a house, industrial machinery, an e-book, and
so on.
Smart Contracts – Similar to a number of other blockchain platforms,
such as Ethereum and NEO, the ShareLedger blockchain will feature
highly customisable smart contracts. These Smart Contracts will allow for
decentralised autonomous applications that can be attached to an asset
and/or account. Every smart contract will be Turing complete, meaning
it will have the ability to implement sophisticated logic to manage the
sharing of the assets. The smart contracts will be tested and reviewed by
ShareRing in a sandbox as well as audited by reputable third-party code
auditors prior to implementation.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The Utility of
ShareRing
Accounts
The ShareLedger wallet will be a lightweight wallet, written in Javascript.
It will connect to the remote nodes via RPC for access to the blockchain.
Since it won’t be hosting a copy of the blockchain, the download size for
the wallet will only be a few kilobytes and will be an in-browser wallet that
can be used on PCs and smartphones.
The Wallet will contain all of the standard functions of a wallet, including:
View ShareToken and SharePay balances
Transfer ShareToken and SharePay to another wallet
Purchase ShareToken
View transaction history
Viewing leased assets
The ShareRing wallet will be designed to be as exciting, easy to use, and
multi-functional as possible.

Assets
The represented assets will be tokenised so that they may be moved
into a wallet address. An asset will have the ability to have a predefined
smart contract associated with it that will contain specific rules. This
may include rules such as ‘temporary’ wallet moves, ownership levels,
and restrictions on what type of account can be moved based on the
‘attributes’ associated with the account. The customisation of these assets
will be available to developers and sharing economy service providers.
Attributes can also be added to assets, which attributes are particular to
that assets itself, such as:
Asset type
Number of wheels

Colour
Number of beds
Rooms
Location
Initially, the smart contracts that are associated with an asset will be
predefined and providers will only have the ability to change the variables
associated with the smart contract. Later on, a toolkit will be provided for
the creation of custom smart contracts.

Proof-of-Stake Consensus
We have chosen the Leased Proof-of-Stake protocol as the consensus
algorithm for ShareLedger. This choice is based on the practicality and
security benefits evident in the Waves platform. It is also much more cost
effective than Proof-of-Work (POW), and will not suffer from the current
issues Bitcoin and other POW cryptocurrencies are facing such as scalability and electricity consumption.
Leased Proof-of-Stake protocol is an improved variation of the vanilla
Proof-of-Stake protocol that eliminates its security flaws such as consensus failure and the double spend problem. It is a two-tier architecture system consisting of full nodes and lightweight nodes. Full nodes will form
the backbone of the ShareLedger network and the leasing functionality
of lightweight nodes will strengthen it. By reducing the number of nodes
that are eligible to add the next block to the blockchain, transaction times
will be reduced and overall transaction throughput increases. A user with
a lightweight node will be able to stake their tokens to a full node of their
choosing and participate in reaching consensus. They will also be free
to cancel their leasing at any time as there are no contracts or freezing
periods. The more tokens that have been staked in a full node, the higher
the probability the node will have in producing the next block. Since the
reward is given based on the total number of tokens staked in the full
node, there will always be a trade-off between the size of the full node
and the percentage of the reward.
As an average user of the platform, you will not need to have technical
knowledge on how to set up a node nor will you have to download the
entire blockchain in order to stake your tokens. Only a user who sets up
a full node will be required to do this, making it simpler than ever for users
to earn a reward for supporting the platform.
WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Simplistic View
SERVICES

FIAT

FIAT

RMB

UNLIMITED

EXCHANGE

SHR (LIMITED)
DRIVES SHR
BLOCKCHAIN

HOW DO YOU
CREATE VALUE
FOR THIS TOKEN?

MASTER NODE FEES

CONVERSION
SHARERING

SHRP
(PEGGED)

USD

SHRP

EURO

FIAT

HIGHER RETURNS FOR
NODES VS SHR HOLDERS

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The
ShareRing
App
A universal ‘ShareRing’ app is being developed that will allow anyone to
easily see and use any sharing services around them. Each partner will
have the option of developing a ‘mini’ app within the ShareRing app that
will have functionalities specific to that partner. The app will use geolocation-based services to display the ShareRing services that are nearby.

The final look and feel of the app may change as development progresses.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

ShareRing
Transaction Fees
Most transactions, with the exception of exchanging SharePay to
ShareToken between wallets on the ShareLedger blockchain, will incur a
small transaction fee payable - by providers - in ShareToken (SHR). This
fee will reduce over time, inversely proportional to the current demand
of SHR tokens. The SHR will then be distributed amongst stakeholders
according to the table in the ‘Transaction Distribution’ section of this
document.
As detailed previously, ShareLedger utilises a dual token platform that
separates the utility and currency into two different tokens. SHR operates
as the utility token of the platform and SHRP becomes the ‘currency’ of
the blockchain. This has a number of benefits, namely:
Commercial/Individual users of the ShareLedger blockchain do not
need to go through the effort of purchasing a SHR cryptocurrency
on an exchange to be able to use the ShareRing ecosystem.
Price fluctuations for users of the blockchain will be avoided.
Users may pay for marketwith various forms of Fiat currencies.

Transaction Fee
Distribution
As indicated above, when a
transaction fee is incurred, it
will be distributed in a way that
allows for masternode holders
who provide a service to the
platform to receive a reward
from each transaction.
Transaction fees are charged to
sharing providers in SHR.

of Total Amount Staked and the
total continuous uptime of the
node.
50% - will be provided to
ShareRing Ltd for various
purposes that contribute to
working capital and platform
growth.

The distribution of transaction
fees will be as follows:
50% - will be distributed amongst
the active masternode holders
who host an active node on the
blockchain at that point in time
(these holders provide a service
to the platform). The distribution
will be based on a calculation

knowledge of blockchain/crypto is necessary to utilise the
ShareRing ecosystem.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Fee and
SHR TOKEN
Earn Examples

Initial SHR
TRANSACTOIN
FEE Target

RENT4ME LTD., a small start-up with 100 rental vehicles,
develops a Car Sharing user interface and integrates it
within the ShareRing platform. This allows them to scale,
automate their processes, increase their security/trust, and
have exposure to a wider audience.

If we take the above transaction
revenue for RENT4ME LTD
and expand it to match the
existing customer base of Keaz,
predominantly being car sharing
organisations, then the expected
initial transaction revenue for
ShareRing could be 750,000
SHR per month. Using the first
example above, this would result
in a monthly profit of 720,468.88
SHR, meaning that the overhead
percentage is only that of 3.37%
- a far cry from the exorbitant
cuts of current localised and
centralised platforms.

STEPS:

TRANSACTION FEE:

After their user interface is complete, RENT4ME adds 100 cars as assets
to the platform. The one-off transaction fee to add each car is 5.0 SHR.

100 x 5 = 500 SHR

RENT4ME then adds 14 custom attributes to each of the 100 cars (VIN,
REGO, Rental Policy, Rental Cost, etc) @ 0.80 SHR per attribute.

100 x (14 x 0.08) = 1120 SHR

RENT4ME then starts renting out the vehicles. They have an average
of 8 transactions per day, per vehicle (rental and return) @ 1 SHR per
transaction.

8 x 100 x 1 = 800 SHR per day
(24333 SHR/mth)

TOTAL TRANSACTION FEES PAID PER MONTH BY RENT4ME LTD.
TO UTILISE THE SHARETOKEN BLOCKCHAIN:

25953 SHR for month 1
then 24333 SHR per month.

2 Year
Target
Based on projections, we expect
that within 24 months there will
be at least 1,000,000 assets in
the ShareRing ecosystem with
an average transaction fee of 20
SHR per month. Such forecast is
based on our projections of asset
types and usage patterns thanks
to our extensive experience
within the Sharing Economy.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Development Timeline
2017

August 2017

High Level
Scope Defined

2018

2019

December

July 2019

September

Consensus Model
Agreed On

ShareLedger
Public Availability

Go Live For
Production

October

January 2018

Feb 2019

July 2019

Development R&D
On Consensus
Model

Development
Commences On
Nodes

Nodes & Wallets
Released For
Review

Pilot Clients Added
To ShareRing

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Token Sale
Terms of Issue
The SHR token will be issued on the Ethereum blockchain using an
ERC20 token standard. The tokens will be swapped on a 1:1 basis when
the ShareLedger blockchain main-net is launched.
Pre-Token Sharing Event (TSE) – February 2018
Pre-TSE ends – May 2018
TSE period – June 4th 2018
We plan on selling the SHR tokens via a White List sale process, with a
KYC (know your client) verification process for all contributions.

Note: SHRP will not be available for sale via the Token Sharing Event.
Note: Unfortunately, US and Chinese tax residents are not allowed to
participate in our token sale..
Note: There is no minimum investment for the main sale, but KYC and
Whitelisting is essential. This can be done by clicking the WHITELIST link
on our home page.

Contribution
Tiers
A total of 3,000,000,000 (three
billion) tokens will be available
for purchase, with a USD hard
cap of $38,000,000. The
exchange rates will be fixed each
day @ 12am UTC. The tiers for
each sale period are outlined
below:
Pre-TSE – 1 SHR = $0.01
($25,000,000 @ 50%
discount) – 2,500,000,000
SHR tokens
Main TSE – 1 SHR =
$0.02 ($10,000,000 @ no
discount) – 500,000,000
SHR tokens

Note: The minimum contribution
for pre-sale participants will be
$150,000. Pre-sale participants
will have their tokens locked for
a maximum period of 3 months
from the end of the token sale
event.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

Token
Allocation

Funding
Allocation

Upon completion of the sale period, SHR Tokens will be distributed
as follows:

All of the funds that are held in cryptocurrencies by the ShareRing
treasury will be auditable by the public, as the public address of the
cryptocurrency wallets will be published on the ShareRing website. An
explanation of any major expenditure will also be listed publicly on the
ShareRing website. The funds will be allocated roughly as follows. A full
budget will be presented during the ICO main sale:

Airdrop
1%

Advisors
10%

30% allocated to main-net development, including the integration of
KeazACCESS as the first ‘client’ to be integrated to the ShareLedger.
10% allocated for external reviews and technology validation by
third party consultants and auditors.

Token Sale
Contributors
60%

Bounty Program
5%

30% allocated for setting up ‘incubators’ and bonuses that will start
working on 3rd party product integrations with the platform.
20% allocated for global marketing and promotions.
10% for contingency funds
NOTE: Any unsold tokens during the token sale will be locked up
and used for the start-up incubation programs.

ShareRing
24%

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The ShareRing
Core Team
Tim
Bos

Rohan
LePage

Neville
Christie

Peter
David

Jane
Sadler-Kidd

CEO

COO

Investment Director

Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director

Tim is an experienced blockchain
engineer and entrepreneur who has
founded several succesful sharing
economy and IoT related companies,
including global car-sharing platform
Keaz, which has offices in Australia,
Hong Kong, Vietnam and the USA.

A highly competent business manager, Rohan’s experience in online
analytics spans many years. He is
highly sought after in this sphere with
a renowned reputation which speaks
for itself. With a strong background in
major automotive, plant equipment
and e-commerce brands, Rohan’s
knowledge of the rental (sharing)
space is exemplary. His keen interest
in crypto mining technology and
hardware has lead him to become
an expert in this field, from which he
has derived great deal of experience
since installing a crypto mining farm
of his own in 2015.

As the grey-haired member of
ShareRing team, and our Investment
Director, Neville Christie’s career
has covered a very wide range of
industries and roles. At various times
Neville has acted as chair, facilitator,
innovator, entrepreneur, business
mentor, venture banker, chair of strategic innovation boards, and futurist.

Peter has a lifetime of experience
in every aspect of growing global
technology businesses. As CEO,
COO or general manager, he has led
several startups to generate total
revenue of more than $300 million.
In 2013 he founded Keaz with Tim
Bos and currently serves as the
company’s CEO.

In all cases, his core function has
been to drive exceptional people,
disruptive technologies, start-ups,
and mature businesses to become
more innovative and impactful at
scale, without sacrificing the authenticity of ‘soul’, or total well-being, of
the businesses or the individuals
leading them.

Prior to Keaz, Peter held many many
management roles in both privately
held and publicly listed companies.
Most recently, he was the GM for
Pronto, managing an ERP team of
71 staff.

A founding shareholder of Keaz and
ShareRing, Jane provides financial
oversight, budgeting and financial
forecasting support to the executive
team. As an FCA her career has
taken her from audit partner, with a
national UK accountancy practice,
through corporate finance advisory
and interim management at board
level, to her current focus on broader
change management and organisational development.

Priot to this, he has held senior roles
with a number of widely recognised
and respected organisations,
including Program Manager at
Avanade Australia (a Microsoft and
Accenture joint venture), Associate
Director at Barclays Capital,
Project Manager at GE Capital, IT
Infrastructure Manager at Atari –
Melbourne House, and Principal
Consultant at Software Spectrum.

Neville’s strong focus on the continued success of ShareRing is part
of his abiding interest in two special
kinds of projects – those that add at
least $100+ million value to the world,
and those that positively improve the
well-being of at least 1 million people
world-wide. ShareRing admirably fits
this profile.

Peter grew up in Palo Alto and
studied his MBA at Santa Clara
University’s Leavey Business School.

With experience working in UK,
Russia, Middle East and Asia, she
brings a clear understanding of both;
the financial and organisational challenges facing a fast growing business
operating in a global environment;
and the need to establish robust
financial practices to track and manage resources effectively in order to
support the planned rapid growth.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The ShareRing
Core Development Team
Trung

Trang

Tan

Manh

Tung

Senior Developer

Senior Developer

Developer

Developer

Developer

Trung is a highly skilled developer
and leader. He has a Bachelor and
Master degrees in Information
Engineering from Hamburg University
of Applied Sciences. With 10 years’
experience in software development
of embedded, backend, telecom,
desktop applications, Trung has
headed countless projects in his
home country including development
of Ethereum blockchain-based
cryptocurrency applications. Now
residing in HCMC, Trung brings
valuable expertise to ShareRing. We
are very excited to have Trung on
board.

Trang is an experienced backend developer with an extensive
knowledge in network, cryptography
and blockchain. With a Bachelor of
Science degree from Vietnam National University, Hanoi and a Masters
degree from Norwegian Technology
National University and Aalto University, Finland under Erasmus Mundus
Scholarship, she possesses highly
sort after academic qualifications
and technical skills. She’s passionate
about blockchain technology, mainly
within Ethereum & Solidity programming language, Proof of Stake to
underlying cryptographic primitives
such as Linkable Ring Signature,
zk-SNARK. Trang brings fantastic
experience to the ShareRing team.

Tan is a passionate developer who
loves to work with core system programming where software has very
low tolerance for failure and where
clean architecture, as well as design
pattern, is applied rigorously. Tan’s
new passion is Blockchain and Deep
Learning technologies. Largely selftaught, Tan brings a fresh perspective to the ShareRing team.

Manh has seven years’ experience
in web development with tools like
Python and NodeJS. He gained
a Bachelor of Computer Science
degree from Thang Long University.
He’s previously worked on education
and entertainment projects like
Classbook and FlixTV. He has a
passion for blockchain technology
and wants to build a breakthrough
application using blockchain.
His experience and expertise
adds another dimension to our
development team.

Tung joined ShareRing as a Web
Application Developer in our Vietnam office. Tung is keen to use his
prior experience in web application
development, to help develop the
ShareRing platform. Tung’s view is
that blockchain is the “new trend
of the world”. His family and friends
would describe him as romantic and
handsome. When he tells others
about being part of the ShareRing
team, he gets very excited because
of ShareRing’s clear vision for a positive future for the world.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The ShareRing
Advisory Team
Adrian
McCullagh

Christopher
Emms

Jonathan
Galea

Anna
Melton

Adrian has been a solicitor for 30
years having concentrated on IT law,
and IT security law. He is presently
advising on Blockchain technology
and its legal impact and is currently
working on 6 ICOs across multiple
jurisdictions.

Christopher is a serial entrepreneur
with extensive experience working
with Startups and Ventures. Having
worked in senior roles for some of
Europe’s most exciting technology
Startups across the UK and Berlin,
where he was first introduced to
Blockchain, particularly within the Fintech space. Christopher advises businesses on Blockchain eco-systems,
regulatory requirements, Whitepaper
Structuring and Appraisals, Business
Plans, Token Design, and Architecture.

Jonathan’s considerable experience
in the blockchain sector ranges from
a close study on the developing
regulation in the area to hands-on
experience in the technical and economic aspects of cryptocurrencies,
one of the most widely-adopted uses
of the blockchain so far. Jonathan’s
LL.D. (Doctorate of Laws) thesis was
titled “The Effect of Bitcoin on Money
Laundering Law”, and being completed in May 2015, it was one of the first
ever legal theses on the subject. He
has been following developments in
the area for four years and moreover
has also participated as a keynote
speaker in several conferences both
in Malta and abroad, covering the legal, technical and economic aspects
thereof.

Anna is a cryptocurrency evangelist
and a highly experienced Marketing
and Public Relations consultant
with an extensive background in
fast-paced and dynamic industries
including Fintech, Gaming, Blue
Chip Companies and International
Music Festivals. Anna advises on and
oversees the entire ICO or Token
Sale marketing and communications
strategy and Roadshow programme
for TokenKey clients alongside
her in-house team and strategic
partnerships.

Principal of ODMOB Lawyers which
specializes in high-tech IT legal
advice.

WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

The ShareRing
Advisory Team
Richard
Kastelein

Ting Y
Chan

Gary
Palmer

Blockchain and ICO Veteran
Richard Kastelein is a publisher
and entrepreneur with international
standing.

Principal and CEO of Dominion All
Services Ltd
Ting was a Senior Executive at
Hutchison Telecommunications
Group, based in Hong Kong, for
over 21 years. Prior to that, he was
a Partner at a leading international
commercial law firm, across its Melbourne and HK offices.

Chairman, TECS Austria
Gary has advised banks, emoney
institutions and technology providers
in their development of blockchain
and cryptocurrency strategies, with a
keen focus on regulatory, compliance
and payment technology.

He brings a wealth of experience
and knowledge on advising
blockchain startups during the ICO
process, including working with
Bancor during its $150M raise and
early humanitarian ICO Humaniq in
2016/17.
Renowned for founding the recently
acquired industry vertical, Blockchain
News, Richard’s pioneering
contributions on blockchain
technology can also be found
in publications, such as Harvard
Business Review, Venturebeat, Wired
and The Guardian.
Richard holds an honorary Ph.D. and
is Chair Professor of the Blockchain
Faculty at Jiangxi Ahead Institute of
Software & Technology, in China.

Ting brings deep experience in building, managing and advising international and technology businesses entailing small to very large investment:
many of Hutchison Telecom’s global
ventures are or were US$billion-plus
investments.
Ting’s approach is practical and
results-driven. He draws on and combines his legal training with lessons
learnt from his hands-on commercial
approach to managing a broad range
of projects.These include greenfields/
startups, JV’s, M&A’s, listings, exits
and closures, IP protection and
exploitation, tax, human resources,
Government relations and corporate
governance.

Gary’s a proven startup founder with
extensive, global experience in building world-class teams and companies
that grow into large businesses and
ultimately deliver compelling investor
returns. He co-founded WildCard
Systems in 1997, which became the
largest prepaid processor in the
world when later sold to eFunds for
$262M. Proceeding that, Gary was
part of the team that sold eFunds to
a NYSE listed company, Fidelity National Information Services, for $1.8B.
And in 2015, Adaptive Payments, a
company he co-founded and pioneered 24x7x365 instant payments
in the US, was acquired by MasterCard International.
Gary holds a BS in Marketing from
the University of South Florida.
WHITE PAPER
APRIL 15, 2018 - V1.2

THANK YOU

