1. Overview

3

2. Definitions

4

3. Design Philosophy

4

4. Sharder Storage

5

4.1 Definition of Roles

5

4.2 Network Topology

6

4.3 Data Security

7

4.3.1 Data Encryption

7

4.3.2 Data Sharding

7

4.3.3 Data Replication

8

5. Sharder Storage & Validation (SV) Network

9

5.1 Sharder Architecture

10

5.2 SV and Authentication Transaction Process

11

5.3 File Hash (Fingerprint)

11

5.4 SV Transactions

11

5.5 Authentication Transactions

12

5.6 Multi-chain

12

5.7 Blockchain as a Service

14

5.8 User Interaction

14

5.9 Document Validation & Authentication for Business

15

6. Sharder Account

17

7. Sharder Consensus

17

7.1 Sharder Nodes

17

7.2 Sharder Pool

19

7.3 CPoS weighted table

20

8. Tokenomics

22

8.1 Token Type:

22

8.2 Total Supply

23

8.3 Burning / Reduction of Supply

23

8.4 Storage Costs & Transaction Fees

23

8.5 Fee distribution

23

8.6 Sharder Pool Staking Limits

23

8.7. System / mining rewards

24

9. Applications

25

9.1 SignEase

25

9.2 ISLAND

25

10. Road Map

25

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
2

1. Overview
Vision: ​To build a global, peer to peer, secure, cross-chain, distributed storage
network that is online 24/7. The Sharder Network will provide storage, storage
validation and authentication capabilities that reimagines and redesigns the way
people store, exchange and validate valuable data.
Sharder is a distributed storage and validation network under multi-chain
architecture. The name, “Sharder” comes from the word, “shard” a widely used term
within computer science. Sharder Client can be deployed together in conjunction
with various public blockchains, storage networks and personal nodes.
Sharder Network can provide blockchain storage capabilities with unmatched data
security. Sharder solves the problem of data breach that is prone amongst
centralized storage solutions. Data stored on the network is encrypted, shard
(broken into fragments) and distributed to nodes around the world ensuring data can
not be accessed without authorization.
Sharder also offers authentication capabilities along with blockchain storage &
validation. Sharder can store and validate documents, contracts and reports by
utilizing a files digital fingerprint or file hash. This ensures that all documents are
securely stored, traceable, not altered or tampered with and verifiably immutable.
Using Sharder, falsified documents can now become a thing of the past. This
business opportunities for Sharder’s document validation are truly endless.
Industries ranging from aerospace to education to government and everything in
between are set to benefit from this technology.
After more than 2 years of research and development, component testing, network
and commercial trials, Sharder is ready for commercial implementation. Sharder’s
native token, SS, now has usage scenarios that will allow Sharder’s ecology to
progressively improve.
In this white paper, we outline how Sharder constructs a decentralized storage
network with storage validation and authentication capabilities. This document has
been written for all users, including those without background knowledge in
computer science, programming, mathematics.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
3

2. Definitions
CPOS:​ Credit based Proof of Stake. The consensus used by Sharder to secure the network.
Sharder Chain: ​The sharder chain is a shared public ledger on which the entire

sharder network relies. All confirmed transactions are included in the sharder chain.
Sharder Hub / Box:​ A hardware device with pre-installed software (Sharder Client)
that can join the Sharder Network.
Sharder Network: ​The decentralized and distributed blockchain based storage network
comprising various Sharder Nodes. Sharder Network will gradually reform the way people
store, exchange and validate valuable data.

Sharder Node:​ ​The Sharder Hub, Box or computer that is participating in the Sharder
Network.

Sharder Token (SS):​ The cryptocurrency embedded into the Sharder network. A total of
500 million SS are issued. The total supply will continually decrease as tokens will be burnt
with transactions on mainnet. SS is a utility ERC-20 token. SS tokens are required by users
to store and validate data on the network. They are also used to reward nodes for storing
data, validating transactions and mining blocks.
SV:​ Storage & Validation

3. Design Philosophy
Business Focused: ​The design and development priority is based on real business
scenarios.
Open for integration: ​Though sharder itself is one storage network, it’s open to
integrate other storage networks such as IPFS/Filecoin to provide additional storage
services.
Imperfect Nodes Presumption: ​The network architecture allows single node failure
and occasional downtime while the whole network remains robust and secure
Ownership & Privacy: ​Data is encrypted and private. A data owner has complete
ownership and access to their data. No one without authorization can access data.
Quantified Contribution: ​All contributions to the network are quantified and
observable based on measuring methods such as PoR (Proof of Replica).
Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
4

Eventual Consistency: ​Data objects are allowed to have different states at different
nodes and can rapidly converge to the entire network consistently.
Monitoring & Recovery: ​The entire network availability and data object states are
closely monitored and could be spontaneously recovered.
Audit & Supervision: ​Data can be monitored and audited in specific situations with
the consent of data owners.
Extendable API: ​User-friendly API with high extendibility.

4. Sharder Storage
Sharder has constructed a distributed storage network which provides cost-effective
storage space, reliable data storage and transparent on-chain information. The
Sharder Network is accessible to global public chains (such as Qtum, Ethereum),
storage networks (such as IPFS, Aliyun, Baidu Cloud), and personal storage devices
(such as hard disks and cloud disks). DApp’s can be developed based on Sharder
Network.

4.1 Definition of Roles
Storer: ​Provides disk capacity for data storage and gets rewarded in SS tokens.
Storers are also subject to inspection from data owners or Watchers and provide
proof of storage.
Watcher: ​Observes the entire network state, checks the security state according to
the security strategy, and fixes existing or potential loopholes. Watchers must be
constantly online. They are essential for the rapid convergence of the whole network,
and perfect for data indexing.
Miner: ​Similar to miners in blockchain networks, miners need to run a client (terminal
or GUI) to store block information and process and bundle transactions. The
network’s stability, connectivity and throughput rate highly rely on Miners.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
5

The above three roles work together to fulfill storage requests on the Sharder
network. See Diagram below:

The Watcher observes the entire network and maintains the status of the Storers. When
storage requests are sent to a Miner, the Miner checks the status of Storers via a Watcher
and assigns the data storage tasks to Storers to store the data. At the same time, a new
block containing the storage request transaction is generated by Miner.

4.2 Network Topology
We have built a peer-to-peer network with a large number of nodes that can join and
exit at any time. Therefore, it is critical to have a good routing table maintenance and
lookup algorithm. We choose the Kademlia protocol1 (hereinafter referred to as Kad)
as the basis to build a P2P peer-to-peer network. Kademlia uses a "distance"
calculation based on XOR between two nodes and then maintains a Distributed
Hash Table based on such “distance”. Such design greatly speeds up the routing
search process, which is critical for the Sharder Network with numerous storage
nodes.
The node list of K bucket in Kad describes the online state of nodes. The Watchers
select the proper Storer nodes by checking their online state, together with the credit
weight table described more in the Sharder Consensus section.

1

"Kademlia - MIT PDOS." ​https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/~petar/papers/maymounkov-kademlia-lncs.pdf
Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
6

4.3 Data Security
The core elements of data security are confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
Sharder leverages cryptography algorithms, data sharding and data replication
technologies to ensure the data stored in Sharder network is always available to
users without worrying about data ​destruction, modification or disclosure.

4.3.1 Data Encryption
The data is always encrypted when it’s transferred via the network or stored on local storage
systems. As shown in the below diagram:

When users interact with Sharder nodes via a DApp to send storage requests along
with data, a secure channel is established via https, the data transferred between a
DApp and Sharder nodes is always encrypted.
ECDH (​Elliptic-curve Diffie–Hellman (​ECDH​) is a key agreement protocol that allows
two parties, each having an elliptic-curve public–private key pair, to establish a
shared secret over an insecure channel​) is used between Sharders nodes to
exchange data when required. Finally the data is securely saved in local storage
within each Sharder node with AES-256-CTR algorithms2.

4.3.2 Data Sharding
Data stored with Sharder is split into multiple shards (small fragments) via data
sharding. It can then distribute the data shards to different Sharder storer nodes.
When data owners require high data security, sharding is a great solution since it’s
more difficult for hackers to get complete data content by attacking a few servers.
2

"RFC 3686 - Using Advanced Encryption Standard (AES ...." ​https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3686​。
Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
7

This is a big differentiation to general cloud storage solutions which usually store one
data object on one or two servers without sharding. This makes the data vulnerable
to hackers who could get all data content by attacking a few servers.
To ensure the availability of sharding, we introduce Erasure Code.
Erasure Code3 is a way to protect data by splitting data into pieces, expanding and
numbering the redundant blocks, and storing them at different places such as hard
disks, storage nodes, or other physical devices. In order to ensure data availability
without taking too much storage space (increasing the utilization of Storers), the
Sharder Network adopts data erasure on data shards.

4.3.3 Data Replication
The default strategy for Sharder is to create 3 replicas for each copy of data. Higher
levels of security strategy requires more storage space, more complex “watching”
and “adjustment”. Sharder allows data owners to define security strategies according
to their own needs. The current configurable parameters are: replica quantity and
shard quantity. The security strategy will directly influence how Watchers fix the
issue of lost data; and will impact the convergence speed of the entire network’s data
objects.
Watchers continuously adjust the data replication and distribution to ensure the
current data file is secure and at least one resource is always accessible.
Assume there are b Storers in the Sharder Network, the data is split into p shards
and each has n replica. The probability of successful retrieval Rs will be:

3

"Erasure code - Wikipedia." ​https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erasure_code​。
Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
8

5. Sharder Storage & Validation (SV) Network
Sharder released the closed Alpha test network in Q3 2018. SignEase is one of the
crucial nodes and users. SignEase uploads signed contracts and validated files onto
the Sharder chain for storage.The transaction ID of the stored data will be displayed
to users on Sharder’s inquiry tool. This demonstrates the traceability and
immutability of all stored contracts and files to SignEase users. Based on these
blockchain properties, all e-contracts and files stored and validated on SignEase are
legally valid as evidence.
SignEase has been using Sharder as an independent blockchain storage network
from the beginning. Every e-contract on SignEase has been stored and validated on
the Sharder chain with the Sharder network providing automatic file storage and
multiple backups.
SignEase gradually evolved to become less reliant on Sharder for e-contract
storage. This is due to China’s blockchain technology and applications developing
rapidly since 2018. The Judicial Chain of the Hangzhou Internet Court, also one of
SignEase’s partners, began to change its method of providing storage and validation
in 2019. SignEase no longer has to upload the files themselves to the Judicial Chain.
SignEase is only required to upload file hashes and other key data to the chain.
A file hash is like the file digital fingerprint. Every file will have a unique hash.
Therefore, SignEase has adjusted the SV methods of e-contracts. Files are no
longer stored on third party blockchain SV or blockchain storage networks and
instead file hashes are stored.
The current commercial scenarios place greater emphasis on blockchain properties
such as immutability, traceability, authentication, transparency and credibility. In a
way, SV networks are a combination of blockchain storage and properties.
Sharder successfully released Hub nodes and set up a beta test network in Q2 2019.
The released Hub nodes can already provide hash SV and authenticity capabilities
without the need for external disks. On the basis of the current COS (Client Of
Sharder), Sharder can provide blockchain SV, authentication, and file hash storage
capabilities by adding Provers, SV and authentication transactions, and making
some consensus adjustments. As a result, Sharder is now positioned as a global
blockchain SV network.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
9

5.1 Sharder Architecture
Below is the overall architecture for Sharder:

DApp’s can be built on top of the Sharder Network.
Storage and Validation API:
This provides an SV service API for external applications to leverage the SV
capability provided by Sharder.
SS Token Incentive Layer:
Provides SS tokens to miners to secure and maintain the stability of the Sharder
Network.
The P2P Layer (Peer to Peer):
The fundamental network layer for Sharder to build a P2P network for Sharder chain.
Credit Based Proof of Stake (CPOS) is the consensus mechanism for Sharder to
maintain the public ledger for Sharder Chain.
Pluggable Storage Layer:
The adaptor used to interact with different storage engines. It hides the storage
engine difference and provides one unified storage interface for other components to
use.
Sharder’s vision is to become a shared blockchain storage network with SV and
authentication capabilities. That’s why sharder has one pluggable storage layer in
the architecture.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
10

Sharder DFS (Distributed File System):
Designed by Sharder’s team and will be enabled as the default data storage system
by Sharder client.
IPFS:
Integrated into the Sharder client as part of Sharder’s storage layer and could be
switched to use it manually.

5.2 SV and Authentication Transaction Process
Sharder provides on-chain SV and authentication capabilities to its two native
transactions (SV and authentication).

5.3 ​File Hash (Fingerprint)
The file hash is created from using a special algorithm on the file contents. The file
hash is an effective way to determine whether a file has been tampered with. It forms
the basis for Sharder’s SV and authentication capabilities.
There are two ways to calculate the file hash: md5Hex and sha256Hex. Users can
calculate a file hash before uploading an SV file to the chain or they can leave it to
Sharder to calculate the file hash.

5.4 ​SV Transactions
The essence of the SV transaction is to record the file hash onto the chain. SV
transactions can be considered as a simplified file storage transaction. In order to
provide Baas (Blockchain As A Service), SV and authentication transactions in
Sharder​ occur in pairs.
Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
11

The user can implement, design, or authenticate the SV files according to the data
structure of the SV transaction and the algorithm of the file hash. In this case, the
user does not need to use ​Sharder​'s native authentication transaction to authenticate
the SV transaction.

5.5 ​Authentication Transactions
The purpose of the authentication transaction is to verify the authenticity of the SV
data on chain and to inform the user whether a document has been stored and
validated on chain. Through the authentication transaction, the user can clearly know
the time of upload and whether the data has been tampered with after the upload to
the chain. For the storage of entire file contents using storage transactions,
SHARDER can still provide authenticity verification capabilities. However, it is less
efficient than using file hashes.

5.6 ​Multi-chain
Sharder is designed as a cross-chain storage network that defines the basic
operations of data.
The latest version of Sharder client has already integrated IPFS storage. DApp users
could seamlessly use SV service provided by Sharder and storage service provided
by IPFS.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
12

Future versions of Sharder Client will enable smart contract requests and SV
requests to be made simultaneously. Like in the below diagram

Sharder’s ability to complete cross-chain uploads to multiple blockchains enables
other chains to utilize Sharder’s SV capability. It reduces the need for other chains to
build their own SV functions and also makes the cross-chain data verification
possible.
The basic principle is as follows:

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
13

5.7 Blockchain as a Service
Sharder plans to use BaaS (Blockchain as a Service) to export SV, authentication,
and storage capabilities externally. Customers who want to use Sharder’s SV service
will not need to install Sharder client or buy a Sharder Box or Hub themselves. They
can use the BaaS API directly to serve their specific business case. This will greatly
reduce the time and effort to get new blockchain based products to market. It’s like a
plug and play blockchain storage solution for business use.
Users do not have to worry about the technical details of nodes, network topology,
block generation or consensus of the Sharder network. It is consistent with the API
services provided by current internet service providers. The difference is the
capabilities above carry blockchain properties.

5.8 User Interaction
Users need to download the Sharder client or the web client provided by the
Foundation node to create an SV or authentication transaction.
SignEase users can also use SV and authentication functions form the SignEase
user interface.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
14

5.9 Document Validation & Authentication for Business
Sharder can also store and validate documents, contracts and reports utilizing
blockchain technology. Doing this will guarantee that all digital files are immutable,
traceable and are securely stored.
This will greatly improve the efficiency in proving the existence of original documents
and ensuring that original documents have not been tampered with. Document
validation and authentication can ensure issues of falsified documents are a thing of
the past.
Sharder can store entire documents on its network or, alternatively, the digital
fingerprint / hash of a file, as it does for SignEase.
The economic costs of fraud, in relation to document manipulation, storage and
authentication cannot be understated. According to the Association of Certified
Fraud Examiners, the typical organization loses 5% of it’s revenues to fraud each
year4. Fraud is costing businesses and individuals across the world $5.127 trillion
each year5.
The key benefits Sharder offers to help reduce fraud are:
●

●
●
●
●

Document immutability, traceability and security
Quick & easy access
Full interoperability
Verified ownership and authenticity of documents and other digital files
Space-saving, cost-effective and highly scalable storage

Sharder’s storage validation and authentication service opens up endless business
opportunities in a diverse range of industries.
Sharder is seeking interest from existing businesses and entrepreneurs to develop
new applications customized for use in different industries across the globe.

ACFE 2014 Global Fraud Study ​https://www.acfe.com/rttn/docs/2014-report-to-nations.pdf
Crowe 2019 Financial Cost of Fraud
http://www.crowe.ie/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/The-Financial-Cost-of-Fraud-2019.pdf
4
5

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
15

Some examples of how and where Sharder can be used are listed below:

Sharder’s goal is to not only provide storage and validation services to its own
clients, but also to partner with other blockchain storage projects such as IFPS, SIA,
STORJ, GENARO and SWARM to provide them with a viable storage validation
solution.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
16

6. Sharder Account
The public and private keys of Sharder accounts are analogous to the HD wallet of
Bitcoin6. The seed is responsible for the security of Sharder accounts and the private
keys of seeds are held by users (a set of signs by BIP44 will be provided to facilitate
memorization).
The Sharder account model automatically identifies the users and merges the digital
assets with the account balance (without the confusing address change of Bitcoin’s
UTXO model). As long as the seed is securely stored, the account is safe. The key is
created by an elliptic curve algorithm and the signature is implemented by
EC-KCDSA7.
Sharder web client will also provide the ability to use mobile phone numbers & email
addresses to identify accounts.

7. Sharder Consensus
To provide a fair environment for Sharder nodes to generate blocks, more stable
nodes will be added to the network to promote network dispersion. Credit based
Proof of Stake(CPoS) consensus is used by Sharder to maintain the network. Such
consensus leverages the benefits provided by both PoS (Proof of Stake) and
PoC(Proof of Credit).
Based on the CPoS consensus, the Block generation rights in the Sharder Network
are determined by a node's PoC score and the amount of SS held.

7.1 Sharder Nodes
Types of Nodes in the Sharder consensus network:
Sharder Foundation Nodes​：A node operated by the Sharder Foundation. Other
than competing for block generation rights, it maintains the minimum amount of
nodes in the network, provides guidance to nodes, and provides basic functions such
as business APIs.
Community Nodes​：Stable nodes approved by Sharder and the community. Nodes
must be able to maintain a 99%, 24/7 uptime status and meet the following hardware

6
7

"Deterministic wallet - Bitcoin Wiki." 6 6月. 2020, ​https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Deterministic_wallet​。
"KCDSA - Wikipedia." ​https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KCDSA​。访问日期：3 7月. 2020。
Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
17

& network configuration requirements: 3.1GHz+ Quad-core processor, 8GB+ RAM,
and a 5+ Mbps internet connection with a public IP address.
Hub Nodes​：A node operated from the Sharder Hub, it has the ability to create
Sharder Pools. The Hub client will be run off the Hub node. The hub client will
continue to be updated and will gain additional functionality to mine storage tokens
such as File Coin.
Sharder Box/Hub nodes are special miners used as physical nodes and can be
activated after startup. The only difference between the two is the Box node requires
an independent public IP, stable bandwidth, and online time.
Box Nodes​：A node operated from the Sharder Box, the Box client will be run off
the Box node.
Normal Nodes​：Any personal computers or servers running a node off the Sharder
client will be recognized as a normal node.
In order to make the authentication and SV network work better, these Sharder
nodes are subdivided as: Mining node, SV node, Authentication node, Storage node.
Different nodes will be providing different functions as follows:

Mining nodes are the cornerstone of the network. In order to ensure the stability of
the mining nodes, mining nodes will be required to stake SS as a security deposit.
This will ensure the stability of the node and block generation in addition to the
hardware and bandwidth required in accordance with the Sharder consensus. If the
mining node fails to meet the basic requirements, it will be fined from the deposit.
Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
18

In order to ensure that Sharder can have commercial capabilities, based off
operating conditions of the test network, nodes that are already running Hubs are
encouraged to switch to using public IPs if possible (otherwise mining cannot be
performed normally when forking). All subsequent nodes should have a public IP,
otherwise they cannot be successfully registered as valid nodes in the Sharder
network.

7.2 Sharder Pool
A Sharder Pool can only be created by nodes that possess the authority to create
them. Each Sharder account can stake their SS to a Sharder Pool. The amount of
SS within the Sharder Pool will determine the relevant nodes' block generation rate.
The block generation rewards obtained from the Sharder Pool will be distributed in
accordance to the amount of SS staked from each Sharder account.
Simply put, every user can participate in mining when they stake SS to a Sharder
Pool even if they don’t run a node. The pool creator is the “proxy” for every
participant in the pool.

7.3 CPoS weighted table
The CPoS score of nodes in the Sharder Network is calculated with the CPoS
weighted table as below.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
19

Node Type​: The Sharder Node is deployed by the Sharder Foundation. It maintains
the minimum amount of nodes necessary and provides stable online services.
Community nodes are deployed by Sharder community members. Hub and Box

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
20

nodes are operated by a person or the team after purchasing a Hub or Box. Normal
nodes are personal computers or servers running a Sharder client.
Uptime​: Sharder nodes are required to achieve a 99.99% online status. Community
nodes are required to achieve a 99.00% online status. Hub and Box nodes are
required to achieve a 97.00% online status. Normal nodes are required to achieve a
90.00% online status.
Hardware Configuration​: The Sharder client will automatically obtain and rate a
system's hardware configuration.
Network Configuration: ​Networks with a public IP will be categorized into 3
classes.
Transaction Processing Performance​: When the Sharder node and community
node connect online, they will be tested on their performance while they're being
validated and will be rated based on their test results. After they're connected, they
will undergo periodic performance evaluations (at present, timeframe is set to
quarterly) and their ratings will be adjusted accordingly.
Amount of Loss Blocks​: The amount of loss blocks will increase by 1 if a miner
fails to generate a block at its scheduled block generation time.
Fork Convergence Speed​: The nodes in the fork will automatically report the
amount and duration of blocks that are: currently in the fork and blocks that will
eventually return to the main chain.
SS Held: ​There are no limits to solo-mine on a single account. At present, each
mining pool will be able to hold a minimum of 20,000 SS and a maximum of 300,000
SS.

8. Tokenomics
SS is Sharder’s native utility token. SS holders get access to Sharders storage and
validation network.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
21

SS tokens are used to pay for storage and validation services. SS tokens are also
used for rewarding miners for storing data and validating transactions.
When external business applications or individuals / enterprises use Sharder’s
services they must first purchase SS from the free market to pay the relevant fees for
the services used.
Demand for SS tokens will increase as more data is stored on the network and more
SV transactions are completed.

8.1 Token Type:
SS tokens are and will remain an ERC-20 Token. This makes it easier for SS to
circulate in the market, be safely stored and traded.
Following the release of Sharder’s mainnet, SS tokens will be differentiated as SS &
SS-M (mainnet). The tokens are interchangeable for each other and the total token
supply does not change.
SS will refer to the circulating SS tokens (ERC-20) which can be stored in
commercially available wallets or traded on cryptocurrency exchanges.
SS-M (Mainnet) will refer to tokens which have a functional role within the Sharder
network, such as paying storage fees and system rewards.
In COS V2.0 there will be an automatic exchange function for SS (ERC-20) and
SS-M (Mainnet).

8.2 Total Supply
500 million.
Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
22

8.3 Burning / Reduction of Supply
The total supply of SS tokens will continually reduce as 10% of fees from all storage
and validation transactions will be burnt.

8.4 Storage Costs & Transaction Fees
Fees will be paid by the storer / initiator.
All fees are paid in SS Tokens, USD value is converted to SS at the time of the
transaction.
Storage: 0.01 per GB per month
Upload Bandwidth: $0.04 per GB per month
Download Bandwidth: Free
Storage Validation Transaction: 10 SS per Transaction
Box Node Creation Transaction: 50,000 (100% burnt)

8.5 Fee distribution
Storage fees are split amongst the storer / validator, Sharder Foundation and being burnt.
Storer / Validator: 75%
Sharder Foundation: 15%t
Burnt: 10% (except box node creation transaction will be 100% burnt)
For data storage, the storage rewards are based on the stored replications of the data /
shards. If there were the standard 3 replications. The 1st replication storers would receive
70% of the reward. The 2nd & 3rd replication storers would both receive 15% of the reward.

8.6 Sharder Pool Staking Limits
Pool creators can set the earnings distribution ratio, creators can earn a maximum of 30%
pool earnings.
Minimum Stake: 20,000 SS
Maximum Stake: 300,000 SS

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
23

8.7. System / mining rewards
Sharder relies on a Credit based Proof of Stake (CPOS) consensus to determine
who stores and validates data / block generation. A smaller number of nodes that are
discrete and reliable is the best solution to create a higher consensus efficiency,
stronger fault tolerance, higher transactions per second, and a lower probability of
block errors and rollbacks.
Sharder will not follow the Bitcoin networks method of attracting nodes (miners) to
join the network by rewarding solely on mining. Most of the Sharder nodes will be
rewarded for providing SV, authentication and storage capabilities.
Users of Sharder must pay for these services just as we use the Ethereum network’s
smart contract to pay the Ether Fee and use the Bitcoin networks transfer function to
pay the BTC fees to the nodes (miners).
A total of 100 million SS were reserved for system rewards. Of that:
● 11,470,568 SS tokens were awarded during the initial testing phase.
● 88,529,432 SS tokens remain for system rewards.
The system reward allocation will be reduced from the V.1 Whitepaper which was
distributed over a 10 year period. Specific details will be released following the
completion of the test network in Q3 2020.

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
24

9. Applications
Sharder encourages businesses and entrepreneurs to build innovative storage
applications on the Sharder network.

9.1 SignEase
SignEase is an electronic signature application part owned by Sharder.
SignEase is connected to the Hangzhou Internet Court's Judicial Chain. The
on-chain authentication is recognized by the courts and can be used as judicial
evidence for possible litigation disputes.
SignEase uses Sharder’s Network for storage and validation of file hashes.

9.2 ISLAND
ISLAND is a blockchain based storage application for sensitive photos, videos,
documents and notes.
Sharder has been commissioned by a 3rd party to develop the application.
Sensitive data no longer needs to be stored in a phones gallery or files. Data can be
uploaded to Sharder’s storage network making it safe from unauthorized access.
Data can be easily downloaded back into ISLAND whenever the user requires
access to it.
ISLAND will be available in the App Store and Google Play in Q4.
Island will pay for the storage of all its users data and upload bandwidth with SS
tokens purchased at market rates from exchanges.

10. Road Map
See Sharder.org/#/road-map

Technical White Paper © 2020 Sharder Foundation
25

