Shopping.io
Whitepaper
V1 .0

AZ EXPRESS RETAIL

LLC 4281 EXPRESS LN SARASOTA

FL 34249

Company Profile 2020

Table of Content
Whitepaper

Abstract

4

Background

5

Introduction

6

About us

7

Our Vision

8

Our Mission

9

Problems and our solution

10

Data ownership

10

Over pricing

10

Dispute Resolution

11

Insecurity for the consumer

11

Delayed Shipments

11

Standout Features

12

Accepting over 100 digital assets

12

Smart Comparison

12

Direct Shopping

12

Free Shipping

12

Big Discounts

12

		Borderless

13

		Decentralization

13

		

Trustless Order Execution

		Incentivized Reviews

002

9
9

Company Profile 2020

SPI Token Features

14

Mobile

14

Fast

14

Trust and transparency

14

Cost-effectiveness

14

Secure

14

Private

14

Getting started with Shopping.io eCommerce

15

Market Overview

16

Revenue Generation

20

Token Economics

21

Packages offered by SPI

22

Token Holder Benefits

23

Roadmap

24

Meet our Leadership Team

25

Disclaimer and Risks

26

Restrictions on distribution and dissemination

28

Risks and uncertainties

28

003

Company Profile 2020

Abstract
Crypto & Shopping

SHOPPING.IO A Blockchain-based platform from AZ

Cryptocurrency and digital assets have

major eCommerce marketplaces while

EXPRESS RETAIL LLC, strives to change this entirely by

recorded unprecedented growth over

their holders can enjoy free shipping and

offering a unified marketplace that combines all major

the course of the last few years. Evolving

up to 10% discounts, without even ha-

e-commerce industry players under one website and en-

from a simple internet based currency

ving to create individual accounts on the

ables digital assets to be used as payment method.

with no inherent value, the cryptocurren-

respective eCommerce websites.

cy market has grown into a complete industry with new projects emerging each

This Whitepaper gives a detailed de-

day and having a combined valuation of

scription of our research and planning.

over 550 Billion Dollars as of December

It also aims to demonstrate the current

2020. However, despite its phenomenal

status and future plans of the Shop-

growth, real-life use of cryptocurrencies

ping.io platform, its associated pro-

is minimal, as they are mainly used for

ducts and solutions and SPI token—the

trading and speculating only.

native token of the Shopping.io eCommerce platform deployed on the Ethere-

Shopping.io, a Blockchain-based plat-

um Blockchain network. The document

form from AZ EXPRESS RETAIL LLC,

strives to inform our readers how we are

strives to change this entirely by offe-

using our teams’ expertise to provide

ring a unified marketplace that com-

a unified and cryptocurrency enabled

bines all major e-commerce industry

eCommerce marketplace at lower costs,

players under one website and enables

minimal fee with higher speed, efficien-

digital assets to be used as payment

cy, and higher returns.

method. With the technology infrastructure offered by Shopping.io, digital asset
(currently top100 as per coinmarketcap)
would now be able to be used across

004

Company Profile 2020

Introduction

Background
Cryptocurrency & Conversion

01

In the recent few years, the cryptocurrency

consumers. Whether it’s because of the

industry has recorded significant growth—

volatility of cryptocurrencies or just the fact

peaking at USD 800 Billion in December 2017

that the technology is still new, major plat-

while fluctuating around USD 550 Billion cur-

forms like Amazon, eBay, and Walmart do

rently, as of December 2020. It was expected

not accept cryptocurrency for payments.

to bring a whole new dimension in creating

Consequently,

value, and given the potential, this market

for more comfortable, more secure, and

sector has got, cryptocurrencies were hoped

cost-effective ways to shop online, as pay-

to disrupt the traditional method of shopping

ment through traditional payment proces-

and payment processing. However, when it

sors—both fiat and crypto— is still expensi-

comes to real life usage, consumers regularly

ve and insecure.

consumers

are

looking

face the same problem: a place where they
can use such cryptocurrencies or how can

This changes entirely with Shopping.io, a

they easily convert the cryptocurrencies they

Blockchain-based platform that strives to

hold into fiat currency?

revolutionize modern-age online shopping
by unifying all major eCommerce players

Accepting, verifying, and processing cryp-

and enabling digital assets as a payment

tocurrency payments is still rocket science

method. In the section below, we introduce

for many website owners, merchants, and

the Shopping.io platform in detail.

005

Company Profile 2020

Introduction
State of the art platform

Shopping.io is a state of the art platform that unifies all
major eCommerce platforms, allowing consumers to enjoy
online shopping seamlessly, securely, and cost-effectively.
It serves as the bridge between the cryptocur-

cryptocurrencies through future-oriented pro-

rency world and the physical world to satisfy

ducts and services.

consumers who previously couldn’t shop while using their digital assets. With the techno-

Shopping.io will not have a dedicated payment

logy infrastructure offered by Shopping.io,

coin. The native token; SPI will only be used as

digital asset users (currently top100 as per

a utility token, use case currently granting dis-

coinmarketcap) would now be able to shop

counts and other advantages. Payments will

across their favorite major eCommerce mar-

be accepted via other coins that would serve

ketplaces and enjoy free shipping and up to

as multiple payment gateways, enabling effi-

10% discounts, without even having to create

cient payment processing, remittance engine,

individual accounts on the respective

social media tipping integration, smart cont-

eCommerce websites.

ract-based escrow manager, and enabling the
transfer of value through mobile app and the

006

Shopping.io provides an efficient, Block-

desktop wallet directly to the desired user. It

chain-based payment processer without com-

will strive to fully harness the Blockchain tech-

promising security. The Shopping.io Platform

nology to allow seamless buying and selling

will serve as the next generation eCommerce

of products through various cryptocurrencies,

marketplace and payment processor. As a

without having the involvement of a third par-

commodity that is not bound to any geogra-

ty. It will address the issue of conversion and

phic restrictions or national borders, the SPI

liquidity by enabling consumers to spend their

Coin strives to connect the real world with

tokens directly through the platform.

Company Profile 2020

About us
Online environment

Shopping.io is a registered business entity under the name of
AZ Express Retail LLC 4281 Express ln Sarasota, FL 34249.
The leadership team consists of industry experts from the eCommerce sector, banking sector, experienced programmers and developers, designers, marketing specialists, and accounting experts.
With Shopping.io, the leadership team aims to resolve problems faced by consumers through the provision of a decentralized eCommerce

based

marketplace

powered

by

Blockchain

technology.

The management at Shopping.io believes that the underlying factor that
will continue to define Blockchain products is the ability to give people
and businesses more power and control over their finances. This is the
driving force behind Shopping.io, i.e., providing a platform to the people
where they can freely utilize their crypto assets in a fully secure, seamless,
and affordable online environment and also providing them with opportunities in the form of discounts to earn lucrative earning in a seamless,
risk-free environment. To execute our mission, we intend to solve some
of the fundamental problems that a daily user has to face while executing a payment or doing an eCommerce transaction using digital assets.

007

Company Profile 2020

Our Vision
eCommerce Marketplace
We envision to streamline the process of online shopping by enabling consumers to shop across a unified eCommerce Marketplace,
whereby they will get quality products in a transparent, seamless
manner at cost-effective rates while using digital assets of their choice,
without having to compromise on quality, security, and authenticity.

008

Company Profile 2020

Our Mission
Blockchain Platform
Our mission is to become the leading eCommerce marketplace
of choice for sellers and buyers for digital asset users. We strive to
develop a platform that harnesses the power of technology offered by Blockchain, Smart Contracts, and Cryptography.
Our mission is to enable digital asset holders to have a place whereby they can utilize their crypto assets seamlessly and cost-effectively.

009

Company Profile 2020

Problems & Our Solution
Blockchain platform
Data ownership
On any given eCommerce platform, a consumer is required to create an account and provide his credentials such as name, address
and credit card/banking information. However, ownership of everything on the page belongs to the eCommerce platform. Moreover,
sales information and user behavior patterns stored on eCommerce platforms can also be used for unequal competition with
selling similar products.
With Shopping.io, a user is not required to create an account on
any eCommerce platform he is shopping on. Just by logging into
their SPI Account, they can search for any item on their favorite
eCommerce marketplace and paste the link on SPI Portal which
will automatically place the order for consumer once the respective
amount in cryptocurrency has been deposited. It is important to
note that the transactions are performed on an immutable and secured by trustless smart contracts which ensure they are released
only once the delivery is made.
Over pricing
Prices on Amazon and other eCommerce platforms may appear
low. But this is only because the other point of reference we can
compare to is brick and mortar stores, which have huge costs to
keep the store open, and thus need to charge a bit more for the
products they sell. But as mentioned above, the eCommerce world
has a ton of hidden fees on the retailer-side that end up getting
passed to the consumer. No store, online or physical, is going to
sell a product without making a profit.
Shopping.io believes in a business model that is more customer-oriented rather than focused on gaining corporation gains. The
platform has a philosophy of making lives of people easier by allowing them to shop at better rates while also offering them 5-10%
discount when holding 1000-2000 SPI Tokens.

0010

Company Profile 2020

02
Dispute Resolution
The process of dispute resolution in traditional eCom-

Our implementation of a combination of private hyper-led-

merce platforms, in case of bad consumer experience with

ger chain combined with public Ethereum Blockchain-based

a merchant, is hectic, time-consuming and often biased. A

decentralized business model will essentially allow differing

consumer has to wait for days for the customer support to re-

degrees of access to a given asset. All payments are secu-

spond, wherein majority cases the customer plea for product

red through smart contracts while the platform and its review

replacement or order cancellation is even rejected.

model and user data are secured through Blockchain. All user
data is encrypted and stored on a decentralized Blockchain

Instead of relying on traditional escrow and hiring a particular

network. Moreover, we use security protocols SSL and comply

representative for dispute resolutions, Shopping.io would use

with the standards of Payment Card Industry Data Security

dedicated Smart Contracts which will record mutual agreed

Standard (PCI DSS), among other measures.

set of rules before the placement of an order. Once the order
has been delivered, the Smart Contracts based on AI will assess whether mutually agreed a set of rules are followed or
not. Upon successful execution of an order, funds would be
released to the respective retailer.
Insecurity for the consumer

Delayed Shipments

Investment in cybersecurity is growing year on year, due to

We know that logistics and timely delivery of products hold

the increasing number of threats to governments, companies,

paramount importance in the successful execution of mo-

and businesses internationally. Far from being oblivious to this

dern age eCommerce and customer satisfaction. Shopping.io

problem, eCommerce is forced to exercise extreme caution.

uses Blockchain to create an incorruptible visualization of the

The processing of purchases requires the sending of sensitive

supply chain process. The Shopping.io will use a Blockchain

consumer information, which must be protected. Online custo-

network to provide a transparent supply chain where consu-

mers are increasingly aware of the importance of security,

mers can see the order flow of the products they buy, helping

and therefore demand guarantees. Unfortunately, a part of the

increase consumer confidence, this way not only enhancing

eCommerce fails in this sense. Sometimes they even violate

the logistics and supply chain process but also making the

users’ rights.

delivery time shorter.

0011

Company Profile 2020

Standout Features
Direct & Borderless

03

Accepting over 100 digital assets
With

Shopping.io,

consumers

Big Discounts
can

With Shopping.io, consumers would be

purchase a product of their liking from

entitled to get up to 10% discount while

any major eCommerce platform while

holding or staking atleast 2000 SPI

using 100 different cryptocurrencies.

Tokens.

Smart Comparison

Free Shipping

Shopping.io features a smart AI powe-

for Starter/Pro package users

red search and comparison tool which

All items have fast & free shipping on

will enable the consumer to find the best

Amazon, eBay, and Walmart. Buy from

deal across all major eCommerce plat-

Shopping.io, and get your item shipped

forms.

free with no extra hassle in a one-step
shopping experience.

Direct Shopping
Shopping.io enables consumers to shop
without having an Amazon, Walmart or
eBay account. Simply open a Shopping.
io account and you can automatically
order from all these online stores.

0012

Company Profile 2020

100 Cryptocurrencies
Trustless Order Execution

With Shopping.io, consumers would be entitled to get
up to 10% discounts when they hold/stake 2000 SPI Tokens.

Borderless

Trustless Order Execution

The Shopping.io Platform serves as a

By implementing smart contracts based

global eCommerce marketplace. It is

technology, mutually set agreements or

decentralized and not limited to any

orders across the marketplace would be

geographic limitations or restrictions. Its

recorded on a decentralized Blockchain

native token i.e. SPI Token is not bound

(an immutable ledger) that can never be al-

to any borders as it acts as a universal

tered or corrupted. This way, the role of the

utility token across the Shopping.io

middle man is eliminated and a big share

Platform.

that was previously taken by intermediaries is retained to the users.

Decentralization

Incentivized Reviews

Shopping.io is a completely decentrali-

All consumers who complete a certain or-

zed eCommerce platform where control

der on our platform are eligible for a free

lies with users, as the infrastructure has

review and rating the product they have

been deployed on the Blockchain th-

received. To encourage the review pro-

rough tokenization and decentralization

cess, we are incentivizing the rating pro-

of the business model. Furthermore, this

cedure by rewarding the reviewers with a

would ensure that all data across the

certain number of tokens once. It is here

platform remains immutable, as it is ne-

to be noted that no fake reviews are allo-

arly impossible to hack, alter or corrupt

wed and a retailer asking for fake reviews

data on the Blockchain.

or fake orders only to uplift their rankings
would be screened and penalized.

0013

Company Profile 2020

SPI Token Features
Cryptographically secured

SPI Token

is

a

cryptographically

secured,

Ethereum

Blockchain

deployed token that works as the native currency of the Shopping.io
financial ecosystem. Some of the salient features of this token include :

Secure
The Shopping.io Platform uses Blockchain based transactions which are
immutable. In the event that a block is
altered, the block would be rejected by
most of the nodes and the information
Mobile

Trust and transparency

would not persist in the ledger. This is

With fiat currencies, it is difficult to carry

Shopping.io eCommerce marketplace

because the block is hashed using the

around large amounts of money. Cash

being deployed on a public blockchain

hash of the previous block which would

amounting to millions is risky to carry

brings transparency in transactions,

link the blocks together and creating a

for several reasons and even not allowed

which fosters trust. Every transaction is

chain. If a block is altered the data would

while traveling abroad. With SPI Token,

recorded in a shared ledger and cannot

also affect the hash for the subsequent

you can easily carry around a million

be modified by anyone. It offers high-se-

block which in turn causes the nodes in

dollars’ worth of Coins directly in your

curity, radical visibility, and faster pro-

the network to reject it. This ensures that

mobile phone.

cessing speed, along with traceability

the information has not been tampered

through the decentralized system.

with which would ensure eCommerce

Fast

ecosystems for customers, suppliers,

Shopping.io eCommerce marketplace

sellers, and shipping companies to

utilizes blockchain technology for the fi-

Cost-effectiveness

nancial transactions which enables near

eCommerce sellers can rely on SPI To-

to zero cost financial transactions, high

ken to avail cost-effective digital pay-

Private

security standards, User friendly wallets,

ment solutions. Since there are no pay-

The Shopping.io Platform ensures that

and an overall amazing customer expe-

ment processes or third parties involved

all user data is kept as private and en-

rience. Transactions are quick and easy,

in a crypto-transaction, SPI cannot be

crypted, something that only the user

sending or spending.

used to buy from the website.

can access.

0014

highly protected.

Company Profile 2020

Getting started with
Shopping.io eCommerce

Sign Up

Go to Cart and Pay Using Cryptocurrency

First you have to create a personalized account.

Once you have finalized your order, go to Cart and click

You can either choose either a seller account

on Check out. During the Check-out click on the

or a buyer account category.

Cryptocurrency of your choosing and Confirm.

Set Up your Wallet

Give Address and Receive

Using Shopping.io Marketplace, you are offered a variety of

Provide the address and select the courier service. You

wallets integrated inside the Shopping.io multi wallet. Choose

will receive the item as per the duration mentioned on

the cryptocurrency of your choice and make sure it has the

the website.

balance you are aiming to shop for.

Search the Item you want to shop

Smart Contracts Execute the order

If you are a buyer, you can choose from a huge variety of pro-

Once the order has been finalized, the Smart Contracts

ducts available on your favorite eCommerce site e.g. Amazon,

will automatically release the earned amount to the

eBay etc. Add a specific item you want into the explorer option

Vendor, seller.

available at Shopping.io to buy into the cart and continue on if
you want to shop further.

0015

Company Profile 2020

Market Overview
B2C
For private consumers around the globe the most well-known form of eCommerce
falls into the business to consumer (B2C) category, which includes online retail or online shopping.

It refers to online purchases from bricks-and-mortar retailers, such

as Walmart, as well as from web-only online retailing corporations such as Amazon.
com or Rakuten.

In 2018, an estimated 1.8 billion people worldwide purchase goods

online10. 		

During the same year, global e-retail sales amounted to 2.8 trillion

U.S. dollars11 and projections show a growth of up to 4.8 trillion U.S. dollars by 2021.

6000

4878

5000

Sales in billions

4135
4000
3453
3000

2842
2304
1845

2000
1336

1548

1000

0

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Source:www.statistica.com

0016

2019

2020

2021

Company Profile 2020

This statistic gives information on retail

2017 survey, 11% of online shoppers stated

eCommerce sales worldwide from 2014 to

that they shopped online via smartphone on

2021. In 2017, retail eCommerce sales wor-

a weekly basis.

ldwide amounted to 2.3 trillion US dollars

The average online shopping and purchase

and e-retail revenues are projected to grow

intention rates among online shoppers also

to 4.88 trillion US dollars in 2021. Online

vary strongly by product category - clothing,

shopping is one of the most popular online

shoes and consumer electronics were the

activities worldwide but the usage varies by

most popular online shopping categories

region - in 2016, an estimated 19% of all re-

worldwide. Average shopper spending per

tail sales in China occurred via internet but

visit was - unsurprisingly - highest in the lu-

in Japan the share was only 6.7%.

xury apparel vertical.

Desktop PCs are still the most popular device for placing online shopping orders but

Amazon.com is one of the most popular and

mobile devices, especially smartphones,

well-known example of an online shopping

are catching up.

platform. Founded in 1995, the Seattle-based site started out as an online bookstore,

In recent years, mobile shopping has been

but soon began expanding its product ran-

on the rise, with customers increasingly

ge towards other retail goods and consu-

using their mobile devices for various on-

mer electronics. The online company con-

line shopping activities. As of the fourth

sistently ranks among the top ten leading

quarter of 2018, desktop PCs accounted for

retailers worldwide - online and offline. On-

approximately the same amount of global

line retailers are the most popular starting

e-retail orders as smartphones. However,

point for first-time14 purchasers but online

smartphones were the number one device

marketplaces are more attractive for repeat

in terms of retail website visits. During a

buyers.

0017

Company Profile 2020

Market Overview
B2C
This timeline displays a forecast of the number of digital buyers worldwide from 2014.
to 2021. In 2021, over 2.14 billion people worldwide are expected to buy goods and
services online, up from 1.66 billion global digital buyers in 2016.

2.5

1.92

Digital buyers in billion

2

1.46

1.5

1.52

1.66

2.05

2.14

1.79

1.32

1

0.5

0

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

Number of digital buyers worldwide from 2014 to 2021 (in billions)

0018

2020

2021

Company Profile 2020

Digital buyers worldwide Purchasing goods

expected to remain popular in the future, as

and services online has become a common

the country is one of the leading online re-

practice among many people around the

tail markets ranked by online shopper reach

world. Some choose to make online purcha-

with growth projections for the next years.

ses for convenience, others because of the

About 80% of internet users in the U.S. are

competitive price offered by some eCom-

expected to make at least one purchase on-

merce platforms. Digital buyers can also be

line during the calendar year in 2019, a signi-

influenced by a range of digital resources

ficant increase from 2013, when this share

when shopping, such as brand emails and

stood at 73%.

product reviews. Reasons to purchase aside, the number of digital buyers is on the

As per the above discussion, the potenti-

rise. PayPal is the preferred payment me-

al for growth of the eCommerce sector is

thod amongst online shoppers worldwide,

unprecedented. Popular eCommerce plat-

as more than 40% of online shoppers af-

forms like Amazon, eBay, and Alibaba have

firmed using this method. The traditional

changed the way we live and shop. The con-

credit card ranks second with a 31% usage

venience, option to order and get things at

rate, followed by debit cards. The range of

home, and a huge variety of available pro-

devices with internet connections available

ducts are only a few of the major benefits

to online shoppers allows products to be

that eCommerce platforms offer consu-

purchased almost anywhere from any de-

mers. And with the addition of cryptocurren-

vice. During the last quarter of 2016, online

cy being accepted as a payment method,

orders which were placed from a tablet had

Shopping.io has a market segment of over 1

an average value of 106.98 U.S. dollars, whi-

Trillion Dollar eCommerce and digital asset

le orders from PC devices averaged 143.35

market to target.

U.S. dollars. In the U.S., online shopping is

0019

Company Profile 2020

Revenue Generation
Ongoing sale

The Shopping.io eCommerce Marketplace would serve as a
self-sustainable business with revenue several instreams,
some of which are listed below

A

A certain percentage of the total order amount from
any transactional activity from seller and buyer

0020

B

Advertisements across the SPI Platform

C

Voucher Codes, Shopping Plans and Coupons

Company Profile 2020

Token Economics
Blockchain Driven Analysis

All funds contributed will be used for the development and growth of our
platforms i.e. technical infrastructure of the Shopping.io platform, its Blockchain
systems, applications and tools as well as for the SPI Token.

SPI will be a 1,000,000 finite supply
token on the Ethereum Blockchain
The entire 0.3% Uniswap trading fee
shall be given to SPI stakers weekly
100% of the 1,000,000 tokens shall be
released on Uniswap during launch
Any holder of at least 1000 $SPI shall be eligible to participate in monthly Giveaways
/physical prizes (Prizes TBD)

0021

Company Profile 2020

Packages Offered By SPI
Enjoy

FREE

STARTER

PRO

No minimum SPI

1000 minimum SPI

2000 minimum SPI

No Discount

5% discount on

10% discount on

Amazon, eBay, and

Amazon, eBay, and

Walmart items

Walmart items

Free shipping to USA

Free shipping to USA

Access to VIP

Access to VIP

Telegram group

Telegram group

International shipping

International shipping

Free shipping to USA

0022

Company Profile 2020

Token Holder Benefits
SPI Token
1.

SPI Token will offer up to
10% discount for all items from
Amazon, eBay and Walmart

2.

SPI Token holders will get free 		
shipping, excluding international

3.

Learn how to make money
with eBay dropshipping

4.

SPI Token holders will be given
access to VIP Telegram group
with daily airdrops

5.

SPI Token holders will be included
in a monthly Giveaway
in the form of iPads,
laptops or PS5 etc.

6.

SPI Token holders will enjoy
Discount Club with
specific items up to
90% discount

0023

Company Profile 2020

Roadmap
Non-conventional
The Shopping.io product roadmap helps us share what we’re working on next and the
direction that we’re taking our business in. It helps us open up a practical dialogue with
our customers and leads about what they want and need without giving away any top
secret details. Below given is a summary of what we have achieved so far and how we
aim to make the Shopping.io Platform as the leading online eCommerce marketplace
platform on the global sphere.

2021
January

SPI Tokens total supply released to UNISWAP
SPI.Club staking platform site launch
Listed on coingecko and coinmarketcap

February

Platform development
Market research

March

Listing on Exchanges
NFT
Adding 100 more coins to the checkout

April

Ali-Express
Mobile-app

0024

Company Profile 2020

Leading Team
Executive Team and Leaders

Arbel Arif

Einav Levcovich

Dan Andrei

CEO

CFO

Blockchain Fullstack

Ionut Popescu

Iveta Ermakora

Lokesh

Developer

Life Designer

Community Manager

0025

Company Profile 2020

Disclaimer & Risks
Framework Overview

PLEASE READ THIS DISCLAIMER SECTION CAREFULLY. IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT OF THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU
SHOULD CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX, OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S).
This document is a Whitepaper setting out the current and fu-

paper and will notify a reader or recipient through its social

ture developments of the Shopping.io Marketplace and the SPI

channels and communities thereof in the event that any matter

Token. This paper is for information purposes only and is not

stated herein, or any opinion, projection, forecast or estimate

a statement of future intent. Unless expressly specified other-

set forth herein, changes or subsequently becomes inaccurate.

wise, the products and innovations set out in this paper are cur-

The regulatory status of tokens and distributed ledger techno-

rently under development and are not currently in deployment.

logy is unclear or unsettled in many jurisdictions. It is difficult to

The SPI Team and its management makes no warranties or re-

predict how or whether regulatory agencies may apply existing

presentations as to the successful development or implemen-

regulation with respect to such technology and its applications,

tation of such technologies and innovations, or achievement

including the Shopping.io Marketplace and SPI Tokens. It is li-

of any other activities noted in the paper, and disclaims any

kewise difficult to predict how or whether legislatures or regula-

warranties implied by law or otherwise, to the extent permitted

tory agencies may implement changes to laws and regulations

by law. No person is entitled to rely on the contents of this pa-

affecting distributed ledger technology and its applications,

per or any inferences drawn from it, including in relation to any

including the Shopping.io Marketplace and SPI Tokens. Regula-

interactions with Shopping.io Marketplace or the technologies

tory actions could negatively affect the Shopping.io Marketpla-

mentioned in this paper. Shopping.io Marketplace disclaims all

ce in various ways, including, for purposes of illustration only,

liability for any loss or damage of whatsoever kind (whether fo-

through a determination that the purchase, sale, and delivery of

reseeable or not) which may arise from any person acting on

SPI Tokens constitutes unlawful activity or that SPI Tokens are

any information and opinions relating to the Shopping.io Mar-

a regulated instrument that requires registration or the licen-

ketplace, the SPI Token contained in this paper or any informa-

sing of some or all of the parties involved in the purchase, sale,

tion which is made available in connection with any further en-

and delivery thereof. The Shopping.io Marketplace may cease

quiries, notwithstanding any negligence, default or lack of care.

operations in a jurisdiction in the event that regulatory actions,
or changes to laws or regulations, make it illegal to operate

The information contained in this publication is derived from

in such jurisdiction or commercially undesirable to obtain the

data obtained from sources believed by Shopping.io Marketpla-

necessary regulatory approval(s) to operate in such jurisdiction.

ce to be reliable and is given in good faith, but no warranties or
guarantees, representations are made by Shopping.io Market-

Given that SPI Tokens are based on the Ethereum protocol, any

place with regard to the accuracy, completeness or suitability

malfunction, breakdown, or abandonment of the Ethereum pro-

of the information presented. It should not be relied upon, and

tocol may have a material adverse effect on SPI Tokens. Mo-

shall not confer rights or remedies upon, you or any of your em-

reover, advances in cryptography or technical advances, such

ployees, creditors, holders of securities or other equity holders

as the development of quantum computing, could present risks

or any other person. Any opinions expressed reflect the current

to SPI Tokens and the Shopping.io Marketplace, including the

judgment of the authors of this paper and do not necessarily

utility of SPI Token by rendering ineffective the cryptographic

represent the opinion of Shopping.io Marketplace. The opinions

consensus mechanism that underpins the Ethereum proto-

reflected herein may change without notice and the opinions

col. As with other decentralized cryptographic tokens based

do not necessarily correspond to the opinions of Shopping.io

on the Ethereum protocol, SPI Tokens are susceptible to atta-

Marketplace.

cks by miners in the course of validating SPI Token transactions on the Ethereum Blockchain, including, but not limited

Shopping.io Marketplace may amend, modify or update this

0026

to, double-spend attacks, majority mining power attacks, and

Company Profile 2020

selfish-mining attacks. Any successful attacks present a risk

of any jurisdiction. The publication, distribution or dissemination of

to the Shopping.io Marketplace and SPI Tokens, including but

this Whitepaper does not imply that the applicable laws, regulato-

not limited to, accurate execution and recording of transactions

ry requirements or rules have been complied with. There are risks

involving SPI Tokens.

and uncertainties associated with Shopping.io Marketplace and/
or the Distributor and their respective businesses and operations,

Shopping.io Marketplace, its founders, directors, employees,

the Shopping.io Marketplace, the SPI Token Initial Token Sale and

contractors and representatives do not have any responsibility

the Shopping.io Marketplace Wallet (each as referred to in this

or liability to any person or recipient (whether by reason of neg-

Whitepaper).

ligence, negligent misstatement or otherwise) arising from any
statement, opinion or information, expressed or implied, arising

This Whitepaper, any part thereof and any copy thereof must not

out of, contained in or derived from or omission from this paper.

be taken or transmitted to any country where distribution or disse-

Neither Shopping.io Marketplace nor its advisors has indepen-

mination of this Whitepaper is prohibited or restricted. No part of

dently verified any of the information, including the forecasts,

this Whitepaper is to be reproduced, distributed or disseminated

prospects and projections contained in this paper.

without including this section and the following sections entitled
“Disclaimer of Liability”, “No Representations and Warranties”,

This Whitepaper does not constitute a prospectus or offer do-

“Representations and Warranties By You”, “Cautionary Note On

cument of any sort and is not intended to constitute an offer

Forward-Looking Statements”, “Market and Industry Information

of securities or a solicitation for investment in securities in any

and No Consent of Other Persons”, “Terms Used”, “No Advice”, “No

jurisdiction. This Whitepaper does not constitute or form part

Further Information or Update”, “Restrictions On Distribution and

of any opinion on any advice to sell, or any solicitation of any

Dissemination”, “No Offer of Securities Or Registration” and “Risks

offer by the distributor/vendor of the Shopping.io (the “Distri-

and Uncertainties”.

butor”) to purchase any SPI Tokens nor shall it or any part of
it nor the fact of its presentation form the basis of, or be relied

To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws, regu-

upon in connection with, any contract or investment decision.

lations and rules, Shopping.io Marketplace and/or the Distributor

The Distributor will be an affiliate of Shopping.io Marketplace

shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential

(“Shopping.io Marketplace”), and will deploy all proceeds of sale

or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including

of the Shopping.io Marketplace to fund Shopping.io Marketpla-

but not limited to loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of use

ce project, businesses and operations. No person is bound to

or data), arising out of or in connection with any acceptance of or

enter into any contract or binding legal commitment in relation

reliance on this Whitepaper or any part thereof by you.

to the sale and purchase of the SHOPPING.IO MARKETPLACE and no cryptocurrency or other form of Payment is to be

Shopping.io Marketplace and/or the Distributor does not make or

accepted on the basis of this Whitepaper. Any agreement as

purport to make, and hereby disclaims, any representation, warran-

between the Distributor and you as a purchaser, and in relation

ty or undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person,

to any sale and purchase, of Shopping.io Marketplace (as refer-

including any representation, warranty or undertaking in relation to

red to in this Whitepaper) is to be governed by only a separate

the truth, accuracy and completeness of any of the information set

document setting out the terms and conditions (the “T&Cs”) of

out in this Whitepaper.

such agreement. In the event of any inconsistencies between
the T&Cs and this Whitepaper, the former shall prevail. You are

No information in this Whitepaper should be considered to be bu-

not eligible and you are not to purchase any Shopping.io Mar-

siness, legal, financial or tax advice regarding Shopping.io Market-

ketplace in the SPI Token Initial Token Sale (as referred to in this

place, the Distributor, the Shopping.io Marketplace, the Shopping.

Whitepaper) if you are a citizen, resident (tax or otherwise) or

io Marketplace Initial Token Sale. You should consult your own le-

green card holder of the United States of America or a citizen or

gal, financial, tax or other professional adviser regarding Shopping.

resident of the Peoples Republic of China, Iran and North Korea.

io Marketplace and/or the Distributor and their respective businesses and operations, the SPI Tokens, the Shopping.io Marketplace

No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of the

Exchange Offering Sale. You should be aware that you may be re-

information set out in this Whitepaper. No such action has been

quired to bear the financial risk of any purchase of SPI Tokens for

or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules

an indefinite period of time.

0027

Company Profile 2020

Disclaimer & Risks
Framework Overview

PLEASE READ THIS DISCLAIMER SECTION CAREFULLY. IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT OF THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU
SHOULD CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX, OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S).

Restrictions On Distribution & Dissemination

Risks & Uncertainties

The distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper or any part

Prospective purchasers of SHOPPING.IO MARKETPLACE

thereof may be prohibited or restricted by the laws, regulatory

(as referred to in this Whitepaper) should carefully consider and

requirements and rules of any jurisdiction. In the case where

evaluate all risks and uncertainties associated with Shopping.

any restriction applies, you are to inform yourself about, and to

io Marketplace, the Distributor and their respective businesses

observe, any restrictions which are applicable to your posses-

and operations, the Shopping.io Marketplace, the Shopping.io

sion of this Whitepaper or such part thereof (as the case may

Marketplace Initial Token Sale, all information set out in this

be) at your own expense and without liability to Shopping.io

Whitepaper and the T&Cs prior to any purchase of Shopping.

Marketplace and/or the Distributor. Persons to whom a copy of

io Marketplace.

this Whitepaper has been distributed or disseminated, provided
access to or who otherwise have the Whitepaper in their pos-

If any of such risks and uncertainties develops into actual

session shall not circulate it to any other persons, reproduce or

events, the business, financial condition, results of operations

otherwise distribute this Whitepaper or any information cont-

and prospects of SPI Tokens and/or the Distributor could be

ained herein for any purpose whatsoever nor permit or cause

materially and adversely affected. In such cases, you may lose

the same to occur.

all or part of the value of the SPI Tokens.

0028

Company Profile 2020

0029

Shopping.io
Whitepaper
V1 .0

AZ EXPRESS RETAIL

LLC 4281 EXPRESS LN SARASOTA

Always
restless
in creativity
www.shopping.io

FL 34249

