Business
Whitepaper
Edition 1.2

The following White Paper consists of information given for discussion purposes only and does not represent investment advice of any kind. Further, it does not constitute an offer to sell shares or securities nor does it constitute a
solicitation to buy such shares or securities. None of the information found within is intended to influence any investment decision nor should it be the basis of an investment decision of any kind. Investment advice for investment in
any security, or any tax or legal advice should only be given by an investment advice firm, and Skycoin is not an investment advice firm. Skycoin encourages readers to seek appropriate and independent professional advice to inform
themselves of the legal requirements and tax consequences of any investments they make, both within Skycoin and
within the blockchain industry as a whole. Investments should only be done with the help of an independent financial
advisor within context of the countries of their citizenship or residence, and their place of business with respect to the
acquisition, holding or trade in Skycoin or any other tokens. Please note that this White Paper does not constitute an
offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, for any person for whom it may be unlawful to participate in a token
sale. Those for whom it is unlawful to participate should not participate. Consult with your own lawyer or accountant
to determine whether it is lawful for you to participate in this token sale. This White Paper should in no way be construed as being intended to create a contract for investment. This White Paper (edition 1.0) may be revised, with the
newest edition always appearing on our website. For each revision cycle, we will provide notes on what has changed
the justification for the change. Updated versions of the White Paper (as indicated by consecutive edition numbers)
may contain information which may override, clarify or contradict previous editions, in which case the latest version
should be considered the most accurate and up to date. Because of this, versions which are found outside of the official Skycoin website may contain out-of-date or inaccurate information. The most up-to-date version of the white
paper can be located online at Skycoin.net.

Table of Contents
Skycoin Project Overview................................................. 2
Introduction................................................................... 3
Project History................................................................ 5
Skycoin.......................................................................... 6
Features......................................................................... 6
Supply And Distribution................................................... 7
Obelisk........................................................................... 7
Problems In Bitcoin & Other Methodologies...................... 7
The Solution: Obelisk Consensus Algorithm....................... 8
Coin Hours..................................................................... 10
Skywire: The Next Internet............................................... 12
The Need For A New Internet........................................... 12
Skywire Overview............................................................ 13
Skywire/Meshnet Diagram.............................................. 14
Communication Protocol................................................ 15
Payment Protocol........................................................... 16
Skyminer Hardware Platform........................................... 16
Technical Specifications For V1 Skyminer........................... 16
Application Ecosystem.................................................... 17
Fiber.............................................................................. 17
CX/ CXO Development Framework................................... 18
Skysuite: Native Applications........................................... 18
CXO Diagram................................................................. 19
Skywire Adoption Plan..................................................... 22
Team | Founders.............................................................. 24
Team | Key Investors And Advisors.................................... 25
Appendix
.
....................................................................... 26
Resources ...................................................................... 26

Skycoin Project Overview
Skycoin is an entire ecosystem where cryptocurrency is only part of the story.
The rest includes the elimination of mining rewards, development of energyefficient custom hardware, the realization of transaction speeds that rival
the likes of Visa, and the advancement of a more secure and private Internet
alternative.
These achievements are a result of the 5 robust components core to the
Skycoin ecosystem:
Skycoin: fast and secure currency backed by bandwidth.
Skywire: anonymous, decentralized mesh-Internet.
Skyminer: hardware and access point for Skywire.
Fiber: decentralized open blockchain network.
Skysuite: suite of decentralized applications.

Architecture Overview
Component
Skycoin

REPO

Bitcoin

CX

REPO

Ethereum

CXO

REPO

IPFS, FileCoin, Bittorrent, Mega,
Dropbox, Google Drive

Skywire

REPO

MPLS, IPv4/IPv6, OpenFlow, Tor, I2P

Sky-Messenger

REPO

Tor, Telegram, Skype, Wechat, WhatsApp

BBS

REPO

Steemit, 4chan, Facebook, Twitter

This whitepaper describes the Skycoin ecosystem and how these five pillars
fulfill the promise of decentralization and more. Enabling businesses and
individuals worldwide to safely and securely adopt blockchain technology.

Introduction
Centralization (Web 2.0)
Web 2.0 created the internet servicer provider, delivering ultra fast internet to
over 225 million people. This created sharing economies such as Uber, Airbnb
and Ebay, allowing global commerce and distribution as never before. The
Internet gave way to seemless payments through the advent of Paypal and other
e-wallets, allowing instant transactions and global remittance at the touch of
a button. These are all great things, but for one major flaw... Centralization of
power.

Decentralization (Web 3.0)

Skycoin picks up where existing protocols left off. Implementing a fast, scalable
and truly decentralized blockchain platform that makes Web 3.0 a reality. Freeing
us from high internet bills, the control of information and invasion of privacy by
governments and corporations.

Skywire

Skywire and its privacy protocol users are provided with a cheaper, faster, usercontrolled Internet in which they are rewarded for providing bandwidth to other
users. Skywire is a net neutrality resolution and tool for private browsing that
cannot be traced or controlled by third parties.

Fiber

Fiber allows anyone, anywhere to benefit from the next generation of decentralized applications with lightning fast speed, stability and infinite scalability.

Skycoin

Skycoin makes free, decentralized payments possible within seconds, allowing
truly decentralized global remittance at speeds that could rival any established
payments network or e-wallet. Skycoin is creating the first fully scalable, protocol
for the next generation of decentralized apps, services and payments.
To ensure stability within the ecosystem, Skycoin holders receive a second
currency called Coin Hours.
Skycoin also has fully functioning software and hardware outside of its existing
core components. Skycoin wallets transact seamlessly. Fiber adoption grows on
a daily basis. The first generation of hardware has already been built, with
further generations of the various components already in production.

Project History
What started as an audit into Bitcoin’s volatility, grew into six years of writing
(and rewriting and rewriting) to resolve issues such as duplicate Coinbase
outputs, signature immutability, transaction immutability, and the most
critical: Bitcoin’s consensus algorithm (Proof-of-Work, or PoW).
At the time, through PoW, miners competed to add the next set of transactions,
or block, in the chain of blocks by racing to solve a difficult cryptographic
puzzle. The first miner to a solution received a reward and transaction fee.
Whereas many lauded and profited from this system of proof, the auditing
team could only see red flags. Bitcoin’s enormous computational energy
requirement centralized the majority of mining to areas of the world where
electricity was cheap.
One group in particular grew out of northern Ukraine and formed an entire
Bitcoin industry—equipped with mining pools, hardware, and exchanges—that
gave way to GHash.io, a mining pool that would come to control over 60% of
total mining power (Noble, 2014). This is only one instance. The current state
of “decentralization”—three major mining pools all based in China (“10 Best
and Biggest Bitcoin Mining Pools”, 2017) and a single producer of Asic mining
hardware—was not Satoshi Nakamoto’s intention.
As the Skycoin team began their earliest work researching ways to resolve
the PoW algorithm, another conflict over centralization heightened—the fight
for net neutrality. Internet Service Providers (ISPs) controlled the Internet’s
physical architecture and could restrict quality of service for network users
based on variable or tiered pricing. In addition, ISPs had the power to exploit
customers by selling their information to third parties (e.g. location, browsing
history, contents of unencrypted messages, etc.). This remains true even
today.
Net neutrality and PoW are outwardly two different issues, but Skycoin’s
team saw the same fundamental flaw: a system prone to centralization.
The research and development for Skycoin would eventually lead to critical
foundations for Skywire, a truly decentralized mesh-Internet that frees users
from ISP dependence.
Today’s Skycoin Project has deployed multiple innovations (e.g. Skycoin,
Skywire, Fiber, etc) under the hands of 15 development teams worldwide. While
still growing, 2018 is the year Skycoin intends to make its formal introduction
to the public.

Skycoin | Features
The Cryptocurrency Powering Web 3.0

The Skycoin Project is one of the oldest crypto projects in development, and
Skycoin is its first creation. Built as an infrastructure project rooted in the
founding concept of decentralization, Skycoin runs on a completely different
consensus algorithm, “Obelisk” or a “web-of-trust.” With Obelisk, Skycoin is
not susceptible to the weaknesses of PoW and Proof-of-Stake (PoS)
Lightning Fast
Transactions take as little as 2 seconds. With no bottlenecks or fees, Skycoin
is faster than other cryptocurrencies and competitive with credit cards and
Apple Pay.
Zero Fees
Skycoin transactions cost Coin Hours, a separate currency paid to Skycoin
holders for each hour they hold a coin.
Secure
Built from the ground up in Golang, Skycoin makes full use of time-tested
cryptographic standards to ensure transactions can’t be tampered with.
Skycoin renders useless such threats as 51% attack, reversal, duplication, and
malleability.
Private
Skycoin’s transaction structure was designed to seamlessly adopt the CoinJoin
protocol. Once integrated, Skycoin mixes transactions from multiple wallets
to ensure they are indistinguishable from one another.
Sustainable
Without the enormous computational energy requirement typical of PoW and
PoS processes, Skycoin can run on a 30-watt cell phone processor.
Incentivized
Skycoin is more than a cryptocurrency. It derives inherent value from the
Skywire mesh network. Users earn and use Skycoin for providing and consuming
network resources.
Utility Backed
Skycoin’s practical application means it is backed by a real asset: bandwidth.

Supply & Distribution
Skycoin is immutable. The total supply is capped at 100 million, and coins
cannot be created or destroyed. Distribution is an open process. As more
coins reach the public, the rate of distribution will slow. This approach puts
Skycoin in the hands of users and community members instead of miners and
speculators.
Our mission is to create a new and better future for the internet through the
Skywire network. Unowned distributable coins will go into supporting longterm network growth (e.g. subsidizing more users to build nodes). Because of
this growth-oriented approach, Skycoin does not need a large upfront fund.
At the time of writing, there are 75 million undistributed Skycoin, and they
cannot be distributed until the first 25 million (25%) have been distributed.
For every year after the first 25% are distributed, another 5% unlocks.
Distribution beyond the initial 25% is hard-coded into protocol and timelocked so that coin distribution stays below the 5% maximum. By creating a
hard-coded, time-locked distribution policy, Skycoin ensures several things: a
fair process that does not deviate from the team’s original intent, a rate of
distribution aligned with user growth, and the protection against inflation.

Obelisk
Obelisk, Skycoin’s unique consensus algorithm, is central to the entire Skycoin
infrastructure. Web-of-trust consensus changes the way we understand and
use blockchain technology. It removes the need for costly mining resources,
eliminates the vicious cycle of mining incentives, exponentially improves
transaction speeds, and delivers greater security.

Bitcoin’s Problems and the Weaknesses in Proof-of-Work

In Bitcoin’s early programming, there was a fundamental miscalculation that
the mining process would produce an economic incentive structure conducive to
decentralization. Instead, PoW has concentrated influence among mining pools
that can supply the resource intensive miners with cheap power. These same groups
of influence can orchestrate widespread changes to the network (e.g. forks).
Satoshi Nakamoto himself identified mining-control as the biggest noncryptographic threat to the Bitcoin network due to the possibility of 51% attacks
when more than 50 percent of the hashing power is confined to one actor.

This also implies that the operation of the network is both economically
and environmentally inefficient. According to Energy Researcher Sebastiaan
Deetman (2016), “If the Bitcoin network keeps expanding...it could lead to a
continuous electricity consumption…[equivalent to] the total consumption
of...Denmark by 2020.” The continuous input of processing power required by
the mining process also incurs monthly costs in the tens of millions. There is
little sustainability.
The enormous mining costs can only be offset by exponential influxes of new
capital and new users. However, few coins outside of Bitcoin and Ethereum
have the rapport to sustain such growth.

The Centralizing Tendency of Proof-of-Stake

Although PoS algorithms tackle the security issue of 51% attacks, they are
arguably even more vulnerable to centralization than PoW networks. With
PoS, the size of a participant’s holdings of the particular cryptocurrency (or
“stake”) determines their voting power for technical changes in the network.
Participants also get to mine a portion equivalent to their stake regardless of
processing capability.
This principle significantly increases the economic barriers to launching a 51%
attack. The financial cost of acquiring the majority of a network’s tokens in
the open market likely exceeds the potential gain. Furthermore, if an attacker
successfully becomes the majority stakeholder in the network, they will suffer
most from the attack due to impact on network stability and market response.
Although it raises the barrier to human-led attacks on the network, PoS creates
a centralizing impulse equal to PoW. With PoW, voting on the implementation
of technical changes to the network “is divided among miners, developers,
and other crucial members of the community,” (Young, 2016) whereas a PoS
system gives “major stakeholders...a technical ability to make any changes
they like without considering the will of the community, businesses, miners
and developers. This centralization of voting power and, essentially, control of
the network defeats the purpose of a distributed ledger-based cryptocurrency
since it contradicts its entire principle of distributing all elements within the
network to avoid the presence of a central authority.” (Young, 2016).

The Solution: Obelisk – Distributed Consensus Algorithm

To tackle this centralization problem, Skycoin uses a distributed consensus
algorithm, Obelisk. Obelisk distributes influence over the network according to
a web-of-trust. Instead of miners, the web consists of nodes (e.g. computers,
Skyminers, etc.) and each node subscribes to a list of trusted nodes. Nodes
with more subscribers hold more influence in the network.

Each node is assigned a personal blockchain that acts as a “public
broadcasting channel,” where its every action is publicly recorded and visible.
As all consensus decisions and communication occur through the personal
blockchains of each node, the community can easily audit nodes for cheating
or collusion—without compromising privacy. The nodes are addressed by their
cryptographic public key and a node’s IP address is only known to the nodes it
is directly connected to. Furthermore, there are no fixed ports and no known
plain text in wire format.
The public record left by each node’s personal blockchain allows the network
to react to defections by severing connections with less trustworthy or
malicious nodes. Under the same principle, if the community feels that power
within the network is too concentrated (or not concentrated enough), the
community is able to shift the balance of power by collectively changing their
trust relationships.
The accountability of nodes to the community and 3rd party audits as well as
the transparency of consensus strengthens collective decision-making, and
introduces a highly democratic and decentralizing element to the network.
(See Appendix for further reading and technical proof.)

Obelisk’s Consensus Solutions
High scalability and low energy consumption
The consensus algorithm was designed to be a scalable and computationally
inexpensive alternative to PoW, enabling both the algorithm and block-making
to run on budget hardware. Centralization becomes more difficult when more
people have access.
Robust defense against coordinated attacks
Obelisk can withstand a large-scale coordinated attack by a well-organized
network of malicious nodes. The algorithm is non-iterative, converges fast,
can run on a sparse network with only nearest-neighbor connectivity (e.g. on
a mesh network), and works well in the presence of cycles in the connectivity
graph (i.e. DAG-type connectivity is not required).
Protecting against the “51-percent Attack”
Web-of-trust consensus prevents the development of centralized power.
Skycoin does not rely on mining incentives, and therefore is not susceptible to
the same PoW/PoS vulnerabilities.

In the unlikelihood that enough resources have been pooled to disrupt the
network, it will have little effect on network users. The intruder would still need
the private key of someone in the transaction chain to do any damage. There is
no transaction malleability in Skycoin. In addition, the public record on each node,
including intruders, ensure its swift severance from the network upon detection.
Hidden IP addresses
The nodes are addressed by their cryptographic public key. A node’s IP address
is only known by the nodes it is directly connected to.
Independence of clock synchronization
The Algorithm does not use “wall clock” (i.e. calendar date/time). Instead,
block sequence numbers extracted from validated consensus and blockchain
related messages are used to calculate a node’s internal time. This can be
informally called “block clock.”
Two type of nodes exist: Consensus and Block-Making
A Consensus Node receives its input from one or more Block-Making nodes.
The algorithms are separate for each, but they both operate on the same
data-structures. Both type of nodes always perform authorship verification
and fraud detection of incoming data. Fraudulent or invalid messages are
detected, dropped, and never propagated—peer nodes engaged in suspicious
activities are severed, and their public keys are banned.

Coin Hours
Skycoin transactions do not incur fees. Transaction fees, similar to block rewards
that incentivize miners to drive up fees at the cost of the network, only create
monetary incentives with adverse effects by eliminating transaction fees.
Instead, Skycoin transactions cost Coin Hours—not Skycoin. To earn Coin Hours,
users simply hold Skycoin in order to participate in the ecosystem of Web 3.0. For
each Skycoin held by an address per hour, its owner nets 1 Coin Hour.
Therefore, holding 1000 Skycoin for 1 hour generates 1000 Coin Hours.
Beyond transaction fees, Coin Hours increase transaction privacy within
the Skycoin CoinJoin infrastructure by acting as collateral for mixing. This
prevents participants from backing out of or slowing down CoinJoin
transactions.

To prevent inflation and support fair use, only a maximum 100
million Coin Hours are produced each hour. Each transaction will burn
50% of the accumulated Coin Hours attached to the coin outputs being
spent by the transaction, rounded up. This creates scarcity and limits the
number of Coin Hours in circulation to an equilibrium value.

Hardware Wallets

Hardware wallets are physical electronic devices designed to securely
store cryptocurrency funds. They are designed to isolate private keys from
online environments; a hacker would have to physically take the device to
access the private keys. Multiple options at various price points currently
exist to support different cryptocurrencies and user preferences.
Skycoin believes that hardware wallets are the most secure means to
storing coins. In order to maximize adoption, Skycoin will soon be
supported by several popular hardware wallets in addition to producing its
own. The Skycoin hardware wallet will support dozens of alternative coins as
well as the ones on Fiber. This is on top of the convenience already provided
by Skycoin mobile and desktop wallets.

Skyminer
The Need For A New Internet

The Internet has long been a tool for personal empowerment and a platform
for business innovation. However, the Internet today has not scaled to meet
the needs of businesses and consumers.
At the very basic level, more than half of the world is offline (Taylor, 2016)
due to a lack of infrastructure as well as the cost barrier to connectivity and
devices. However, when 767 million people survive on less than $1.90 USD
per person per day (poverty and shared prosperity 2016, 2016, p. 3), it is the
market that has determined who gets access and who does not. Because
consumers have to pay the prices that Internet Service Providers (ISPs)
dictate, the market has done its work connecting wealthier nations, where
an argument for revenue can easily be made.
As persuasive as the revenue opportunity is in developed nations, that does not
mean Internet access comes unrestricted. Network users and ISPs have long
had a contentious relationship—providers make the rules, and consumers pay
to obey them. Recent events have culminated in the repeal of net neutrality,
followed by plenty of public protest. Yet regardless of whether consumers
successfully fight the repeal or not, it does not change their dependence on
ISPs for a vital service.
Even businesses, bodies that sit at the very top of the revenue argument,
have voiced their dissent. However, businesses face another issue with the
existing Internet. As leaders at the forefront of emerging technologies, their
ambitions are bound by the limitations of bandwidth and quality of service
(QoS). Use cases include:
• Mobile Augmented Virtual Reality
• Autonomous vehicles
• Internet of Things (IoT)
Networking capability is one of the last remaining barriers preventing adoption
of these and other emerging technologies. Bandwidth requirements will
continue to rise as media standards increase in quality and as more devices
become connected. Latency, redundancy, and other QoS considerations will
become ever more important to ensure operational safety as IoT technology
plays a more critical role in human life.

History has shown an inevitable cycle of innovation. When a service cannot
meet the needs of those they serve, consumers will eventually respond in kind.
Necessity is the mother of innovation and few things are more necessary now
than a new, decentralized internet—Skywire.
Skywire’s minimal requirements lower the barrier to entry. Its state as a
decentralized mesh network means privacy, security, and independence.
Its speed and adaptability creates boundless room for innovation. But more
importantly, Skywire distributes the power long held by a small central body.

Skywire Overview
The Skywire project aims to create an incentivized mesh network that is
faster, more affordable, more accessible, and offers higher QoS than the
current Internet.
For a mesh network to meet these goals, it must have a:

Communication Protocol

that avoids the limitations of Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol
(TCP/IP) communication protocols.

Payment Protocol

that compensates operators for the resources they provide to the network.

Hardware Platform

capable of spanning the last mile and providing the networking, storage, and
computing resources needed to scale the network.

Application Ecosystem

that drives adoption of the network and demand for network resources.
The Skywire team has spent nearly four years developing robust solutions to
meet these requirements. Skywire’s routing and payment protocols are ready
today. First generation hardware units are complete and have shipped to
consumers. Development of applications (both third-party and native) is in
full swing. All of the pieces are in place and Skywire is ready to build the next,
better Internet.

Skywire/Meshnet
A

Client runs VPN client

B

VPN Tunnels traffic back to
legacy IP4/IP6 internet

All client traffic is tunneled
through TUN/TAP adapter
VPN client connects to
server over skywire
source routing avoids hot
potato BGP routing and
allows route selection by
DOS criteria

Skywire nodes are
identified by their
public key

Skywire nodes are
connected over a fixed,
mesh, point to point
topology

A connection between
nodes is called transport

Nodes can initiate
packet forwarding
rules, called a route.
R: A > B > C.

A

B

1

A

R: A > X1 > C

X

R: A > X2 > C
R: A > X3 > X4 > C

C
X

2

3

X

4

Nodes receive or consume
coins based upon their usefulness and balance of resources
consumed and produced.
Scale invariant. Operates
at multiple length scales.
Countries, cities, factories to
internal home networks and
Internet of Things (IoT).

X
Nodes can initiate packet
forwarding rules, called a
route. R: A > B > C.

Multi-hop data transmission
helps to prevent resource exhausting attack, such as DDoS.
Nodes use Skycoin to acquire,
retain and ration network
resources.

Network is source-routed and
supports multihoming
Network supports different
routes to meet application
quality of services (QoS)
requirements.
Skycoin applications run on
their own network and use
independent namespace.

Communication Protocol
Almost all Internet traffic today uses the Transmission Control Protocol/
Internet Protocol (TCP/ IP) communication protocols. These protocols are
over 40 years old, and are not well suited for a mesh network. TCP interprets
any packet loss as a signal of network congestion and automatically scales
back connection speed to alleviate congestion. Additionally, IP-based
routing is slow and computationally expensive due to each node having to
independently look up where to send the packet next.
The Skywire communication protocol uses Multi-protocol Label Switching
(MPLS) techniques to enable highly-scalable and high-performance transport
of any data across any medium. With MPLS, routes through the network are
determined prior to sending traffic. Outbound packets receive nested labels
that describe their route through the network. When a node receives a packet,
it simply reads the outermost label and takes the corresponding action. This
requires vastly less computational effort than IP routing table lookups.
The current Internet incentivizes ISPs to dump their traffic onto other networks
as soon as they can through so-called “hot potato routing.” This is good
for ISPs but not good for traffic sent over the network. Hot potato routing
can lead to greatly increased latency due to the increased number of hops.
Skywire circumvents this issue completely. Source nodes using Skywire will
always prefer to send their traffic over routes with low latency, cost, and hop
count. This creates an economic incentive for an efficient network topology
because the rewards for operating a node scale with the amount of traffic
forwarded. Additionally, source nodes have complete control over routing and
can modify routing protocol to suit their needs. Common scenarios include:
• Optimizing for lower latency network paths for VOIP or gaming
• Optimizing higher throughput network paths for video and file sharing
• Bundling routes for redundancy, reduced latency and throughput
Skywire’s communication protocol also provides privacy and security
advantages over TCP/IP. Each node on a packet’s route can only see the
previous hop and the next hop for that packet—not the source, destination, or
content. This is a significant improvement over IPv4, where anyone handling
a packet can see both the destination and source. Nodes on the Skywire
network are uniquely identified by their public key hash instead of IP address.
This renders man-in-the-middle attacks impossible since a source node can
verify the authenticity of the destination through its public key.

Because Skywire is end-to-end encrypted, those who host traffic will not
know what the traffic is. In comparison, a similar concept exists in hosting a
TOR exit node. However, a TOR exit node will store copies of the data on the
host’s system, leaving the host vulnerable to unfavorable legal situations. If
a node is suspected of malicious activity, it can be blacklisted and therefore
banned from reconnecting to the host.

Payment Protocol
All current Internet alternatives have one critical flaw: they are operated by
unpaid volunteers. This leads to situations where the majority of users access
network resources without providing anything in return. Skywire solves this
problem with its embedded payment protocol. With this protocol, every node
effectively acts as a micro-ISP capable of automatic metering, billing, and
settlement.
Nodes want to forward traffic and receive subsidies (i.e. Skycoin and Coin
Hours). This is the equivalent of “mining” in Skycoin and how many users will
earn their first coins. Each node on a route records the volume of traffic it
relays and the origin node records the volume of traffic it sends. Bandwidth
payments are automatically and periodically settled through a blinded
escrow system.
The origin node holds coins in escrow with a third party. A pseudonym
account is created with the third party. Each node can verify the reputation
of the origin and its payment ability through the third party, without learning
the identity of the party. From the third party’s perspective, all nodes will
appear as multiple unlinked pseudonym accounts.
Small transactions will be settled internally, in off-blockchain transactions.
The off-blockchain transactions can be withdrawn into a newly generated,
never-before-used address once the balance exceeds a threshold (currently 1
Skycoin). This reduces blockchain bloat and encourages micro-transactions
to be performed off-blockchain.
See Appendix for additional information on Skywire.

Application Ecosystem
Fiber

Fiber is a launchpad for scalable, secure, and decentralized applications
by 3rd parties—a necessary solution as more businesses seek to adopt
blockchain architecture. With better speed, better security, and better
privacy, blockchain can finally reach its potential as a reliable, lightning-fast,
versatile foundation for modern business.
Through Fiber, each coin has a separate blockchain that is fully customizable
to their needs and equipped with all the benefits of Skycoin technology:
• Low energy consumption
• Near-instant transaction times
• No transaction fees
Because each company has their own blockchain, they do not face the
congestion issues seen on platforms such as Ethereum’s ERC-20. This
removes limitations that currently prevent many businesses from embracing
blockchain technology. For example, energy companies are legally bound to
stringent operation guidelines (e.g. transaction speeds, reporting, metering,
etc.). As both a business value and legal obligation, they cannot risk operations
grinding to a halt due to traffic from unrelated organizations. With Fiber, this
issue is completely avoided.

Companies have already begun adopting Fiber
as the foundation for their blockchain solutions:
Spaco
Spaco is a decentralized service built on Fiber, running storage and data
transfer, a peer-to-peer encrypted Internet browser with built in anti-spam
and versatile user-controlled feed filtering, as well as secure future applications
in custom site-creation, shopping, games, video, and much more.
MyDailyLife (MDL) Talent Hub
MDL aims to build a trustchain for the $2.3 trillion entertainment industry. The
MDL platform features a unique prosumer-based ecosystem marketplace and
micro-KOL (Key Opinion Leader) partnership programs to raise revenue.

CX/ CXO Development Framework

The Skycoin ecosystem includes its own programming language and
immutable object system. These provide the foundation for application logic
and data distribution on the Skywire network.
CX Programming Language
The CX programming language was developed by the Skycoin team as a
deterministic language that can build more than just smart contracts, while
also providing greater security and versatility. CX can be used to create
decentralized applications, video games, and program FPGA chips. For
technical audiences, a detailed overview of the language can be found on
the Skycoin blog (see Appendix).
CX Object System (CXO)
The distributed content sharing protocol CXO enables peer-to-peer replication
of structured data that can only be modified by the publisher. With CXO, a
publisher creates a data feed and signs it with their private key. Other nodes
can subscribe to this data feed, making it available to the broader network.
Other nodes however cannot alter the data feed without the publisher’s
private key, and therefore ensuring data integrity can be trusted even if the
file is not directly downloaded from the publisher’s original node.
In effect, CXO combines the immutability associated with blockchain and
the scalability of a content distribution network (CDN). This is useful in cases
where content needs to be easily available and verifiable, but not necessarily
stored on the blockchain. For example, storing all of the content for a social
media platform directly on the blockchain would lead to bloat as the platform
gains adoption. Using CXO to store and distribute the content completely
avoids this issue.

Skysuite: Native Applications

The Skycoin team is developing a suite of self-contained applications
that run natively on the Skywire network. In combination with third-party
applications, these drive more demand-generating services to the Skycoin
ecosystem. Some of the applications currently in development include SkyMessenger, an IM client; Skycoin BBS, a social media platform; Cryptosphere,
a VPN client; and Kitty Cash, an ambitious successor to the wildly popular
CryptoKitties game.

CXO
Publisher controls data
store contents and can
update contents
Root objects signed by
publishers private key
Sequence
number for
updating
data store
contents

Directory
Object
...

INODE X
ROOT OBJECT
Unit64 seq directory
href:x, schema directory

directory object x
()href, ()directory
()href, files

URL route, cxo://pubkey_A/directory_1/filename
File objects control static data, like website,
css, javascript files, JSON
Objects are identified and fetched by SHA256 hash
Files will not re-download unless changed, thus saving
network bandwidth and speeding content delivery

Directory
Object
...

File Object
Data ()byte
...

File Object
Data ()byte
...

Skyminer Hardware
Skyminers are custom-built hardware VPN units that provide the computing
power, networking capability, and storage capacity necessary for the Skywire
network’s infrastructure backbone.
The Skycoin ecosystem is designed to be accessible to everyone, regardless
of their means or technical knowledge. Skyminers are a major driver of that
accessibility. Their low-cost hardware and energy efficiency make them
relatively cheap to buy and run. A “plug and play” functionality is currently in
the works so that nontechnical users can easily deploy their own nodes.
In keeping with the Skycoin Project’s open-source roots, full Skyminer part
lists and assembly guides will be available to anyone who would like to build
their own.

Technical Specifications
for v1 Skyminer
• Custom PCB boards
• 16-port OpenWRT router
• 16 GB RAM (32 x 512MB DDR3)
• ARM Cortex ™-A53 CPU
• 8 x 16GB Class-10 A1 Micro SD
• Hexa-core Mali450 GPU
• LAN Bandwidth: 8 x 100Mbps
• Gigabit ethernet, 8+1 port switch
• 64-bit Linux (Alpine Linux)

Unit Production Capacity

The Skycoin team is already ramping up production of Skyminers. Post
mainnet, Skycoin plans to have 1 factory producing 1,000 units per week with
plans to scale up to 2 factories producing 10,000 units per week by Q1 of 2019.

Hardware Research and Development

There are two main areas of R&D for Skyminers. First is the antenna hardware.
The team is developing two main antenna variants:
1. A short-range (up to 5km with clear Line-of-Sight)
antenna for point-to-point access in urban areas
2. A long-range (up to 15km) antenna to connect
sparsely populated communities
These antennas will use multiple-input and multiple-output (MIMO) signaling
to maximize performance and effective range. In order to accommodate
the needs of a global customer base, the antennas will have two power
configurations:
1. Low-power antenna built to comply with US FCC regulations and
similar international regulations regarding unlicensed transmissions
(CFR, Title 47, Part 15)
2. High-power antenna for geographies that allow them
First generation Skywire antenna units are in testing phases now with
availability anticipated for mid-2018.
The second R&D focus area is the components of the Skyminer itself. Two
of the initial development priorities for the team are multi-terabyte storage
arrays and specialized FPGA chips capable of decrypting traffic orders of
magnitude faster than the first-generation Skyminer components. The team
plans to partner with hardware suppliers to build optimized hardware without
sacrificing affordability.

Skywire Adoption Plan
When fully deployed, Skywire provides direct access to the Internet backbone.
In order to achieve this, Skywire must provide:
• Short-range connectivity between nodes in densely populated regions
• Long-range wireless connectivity in sparsely populated regions
• Backhaul connections to the fiber backbone
These goals are achievable with existing technology. Skywire will use a phased
approach to roll out the network.

Phase 1: Testnet

The first phase is already underway. A software-based testnet has been live
since late 2017. The first Skyminer units, at the time called Skyminers, have
shipped, and the hardware-based testnet will begin in late Q1 of 2018. The
testnet allows the team to ensure Skywire is ready for broader adoption.
Operators of official Skyminers and select DIY operators will receive Skycoin
for their participation in the testnet.
In this phase, the network functions as an overlay—traffic between Skywire
nodes must travel over the existing Internet unless the nodes are directly
connected over Ethernet or WiFi.

Phase 2: Mainnet

The second phase marks the official launch of the mainnet and the beginning
of real mesh network capabilities. Skywire nodes will connect to each other
over WiFi and share bandwidth. Both short-range and long-range wireless
antennas will become available during this phase, enabling node peering
over distances up to 5km and 15km, respectively.
At this stage, the market for bandwidth will not be at self-sustaining critical
mass, therefore the Skycoin Foundation will temporarily subsidize node
operations. As an incentive for early adopters, a daily allotment of Skycoin
will be distributed evenly among the total number of nodes in operation. As
the number of nodes increases, this subsidy will naturally decline and rewards
from usage will grow. Eventually, the reward structure for operating a node
will result entirely from usage.

Phase 3: Backhaul

Backhaul traditionally refers to the portion of the network that connects
the network edge and the main backbone. In Skywire, backhaul refers to
the connection between the wireless meshnet and a fiber connection point.
Establishing Skywire backhaul connections is more involved than establishing
peer-to-peer connections since it requires setting up a direct connection to
fiber in a colocation data center or other network point of presence.
Because the nodes that facilitate backhaul connections aggregate traffic
into the Internet backbone, they will require more upfront investment and
hardware capacity than a typical node on the meshnet. Current Tier 2
network operators who own fiber connections can easily set up their own
Skywire equipment to support these backhaul connections, which provides
them with a method to monetize otherwise unused bandwidth.
Once backhaul connections are implemented, the meshnet no longer depends
on Tier 3 ISPs (e.g. Comcast). For additional performance and redundancy,
backhaul connections should be established between as many fiber locations
as possible.
Phase 3 completes the implementation of the Skywire architecture, but
the work by no means stops there. Upgrades to the network’s hardware
will constantly be researched and developed. These upgrades will increase
efficiency and performance, ensuring that the network can always meet
demand.

Team | Founders
It takes extraordinary people to do extraordinary things. The Skycoin team
is an assembly of the best and brightest to create the future.

Synth

Founder
Synth, one of the earliest developers behind Bitcoin, started Skycoin 8 years
ago with a vision of creating a new, decentralized Internet. He sits on
the advisory boards of several cryptocurrency projects. Synth has a
background in mathematics, distributed systems, and symbolic logic.

Houwu Chen

Founder
Houwu is one of the creators behind Ethereum, and the author of the Obelisk
whitepaper which sits at the heart of our decentralized Internet and
currency. He was formerly a PHD at Tsinghua University.

Team | Investors & Advisors
Michael Terpin

Founder and CEO of CoinAgenda

Michael Terpin is the Founder and CEO of Transform Group and the
Founder of Marketwired. In early 2013, Terpin co-founded BitAngels, which
gave birth to the CoinAgenda conference series. He also co-founded
early blockchain incubator bCommerce Labs and the Dapps Fund. Currently,
Terpin heads the ICO investment committee for the Alphabit Fund and advises
numerous blockchain companies and foundations. Terpin has led the PR efforts
for more than 150 blockchain companies and foundations.

Alphabit

Digital Currency Fund

Co-founded by Liam Robertson, a former currency trader at hedge fund Light Peak
Capital in London, Alphabit is a $300 million fund that operates as a cross between
an open-ended mutual fund and a hedge fund. Alphabit’s previous investments
include Videocoin and Stormx.

TokenKey

Founded by Chris Emms – Tokenkey is a specialized global team that provides
assistance with blockchain projects, ranging from initial idea to delivery, allowing
teams to remain project focused. Their services cover assisting projects to procure :
whitepapers and business plans, token economics, auditing and rating, structuring
and compliance, corporate entity and legal, digital asset creation, advisory board,
token issuance and exchange listing, custodial and escrow, marketing and PR,
community management and bounty, and cryptocurrency trading and arbitrage.

SharkCIA

Marketing and Strategy

SharkCIA is a cryptocurrency intelligence agency specializing in the research,
investing, and marketing of blockchain-based companies. With members from
around the world, SharkCIA’s experienced team provides growth-hacking, public
relations, grassroots community outreach, strategic advisement roles and has
helped to propel relatively obscure projects towards wider recognition and increased
market capitalization.

Appendix
A Distributed Consensus Algorithm for Cryptocurrency Networks
by user johnstuartmill and an anonymous user
Skywire: A New Internet
CX Overview

Resources
10 Best and Biggest Bitcoin Mining Pools 2017
(2017, November)
BBC News. CryptoKitties craze slows down transactions on Ethereum network.
(2017, December 5).
Bitcoin Could Consume as Much Electricity as Denmark by 2020.
Deetman, S. (2016, March 29)
The global findex database 2014
Demirguc-Kunt, A., Klapper, L., Singer, D., & Oudheusden, P. V. (2015)
A Quick History of Cryptocurrencies BBTC -- Before Bitcoin.
Griffith, K. (2014, April 16)
Identification for development 2017 annual report. (2017)
Two Researchers Think ‘Armageddon’ Is Nigh for Bitcoin.
Noble, Z. (2014, June 17)
poverty and shared prosperity 2016. (2016)
How Cable Companies Are Stopping You From Getting Fiber
Smith, D. (2014, June 6.)
47 percent of the world’s population now use the Internet, study says.
Taylor, A. (2016, November 22)
Proof-of-Work vs Proof-of-Stake: merits and disadvantages.
Young, J. (2016, September 14)

Skycoin.net

