SeChain

SeChain White Paper

SeChain

Index
1.Glossary
2.Scope and Mission
3.Marketing
4.Road map
5.Use of coins
6.Our team and ad-visor
7.Contact & Social Profiles

Glossary
List of terms used in this white-paper is discussed below with their respective
explanation for better understanding of prospectus.
SeChain (SNN)
Name and Acronym of Virtual Currency
Ethereum
Decentralized platform capable of executing smart contracts and applications
using block chain.
Exchanges
Platform that arbitrates purchase and sales of crypto coins.
ERC20
Standard token created on Ethereum blockchain which can be exchanged with
another ERC 20 token. Also, ERC 20 tokens can be easily integrated into
blockchain wallets and exchange platform.
KYC
Exchange users are identified with Institutional policies with an eye to combat
money laundering and the finance of terrorism.
Smart Contracts
A programming platform intended to digitally promote, verify or enforce the
negotiation or performance of contracts.
Wallet
Store Currency in your Online wallet.
Trading Pairs
Trade among the different kinds of cryptocurrency calculating the value of

SeChain

cryptocurrency while negotiation of purchase and sale.

Scope and Mission
SeChain project is building the future of decentralized services where the
service provider & the customers can get the work done in decentralized
environment far from centralized companies, so any one need a service like
painting house , repairing car , selling used items, providing any pro service like
transportations , logistics , supply chain ..etc. can simply own SNN , then it will
be used as guarantee of work done , after confirmation of service funds will be
release to the service provider ,
With SNN you can achieve many targets.
- Defi Services.
- Staking Services.
- Real Decentralization Services.
- Allow everyone to provide his services direct from any location
- Local community services.

Marketing
Online marketing/Advertising programs
Our professionals are highly skilled in managing the campaigns aimed at
capturing huge users and inevitable exchanges within a shorter.
Finance marketing
Reputed companies across the world are undertaking our extraneous auditing
services which facilitates trust and exhibit transparency to our user community.
SEO
FOPAY coin be the top search results of Google with our expert search engine
optimization, resulting in targeted traffic that reaches our platform.
Quick rise in funds
FOPAY coin beneath ERC 20 standard is relatively new-sprung which creates
curiosity among the people to invest in it while comparing with other
cryptocurrencies and mining coins.
Programming
Experienced web development team has taken much effort to implement the
best payment solutions and develop best app related transaction services with
block chain network.

SeChain

Road map
2019 start the project mode and implement all the ideas solutions.
2020 kickoff the sales, giveaway, marketing, start e-commerce platform.
2021 list in 20 exchanges & start SeChain Platform
2023 legalize all the operations and start out the trading concern with retailers.
2024 audit all the work-flow and improve the security and infrastructure of
SeChain.

Use of Coin
SeChain is Based on Ethereum ERC20 technology, then it will move to MainNet ,
it brings scalability and security to users, and will reach the market with the
prospect of revolutionizing the definition of Decentralized Services. An exclusive
benefit like progressive discounts on the Decentralized services & community
local work, payment solution for the services , logistics ,transportation ,whole
sale, supply chain ,taxi services.

Coin Allocation
%10

Bonuses and Reservations

%10

Advisers

%10

for decentralized services improvement

%50

Distributed to the Community.

%20

Team and Founders

COIN INFORMATION
Coin Name

- SeChain (SNN)

Cost of 1 SeCHain - 0.015 $
Circulating Supply - 68,700,000,000 SNN
Max Supply
Total Supply

- 68,700,000,000 SNN
- 68,700,000,000 SNN

SeChain

Payment Method

- ETHEREUM (ETH), BTC.

Adaptable Issuance

- ISSUENCE OF NEW COINS IS NOT ALLOWED AND GET

DESTROYED IF IT IS NOT SOLD.
Pre sales

- 5,000,000,000

Pre-Sale Date

- 20/07/2020

Our team and advisors
crypto currency market is evolving, there are huge business deals under this
Solution. But most of them could not transfer their white paper to real business
because of Lake of business experts. Our team members is corporate level
professionals in finance, audit, marketing, programming, projects ,investment ,
we also in a joint venture with corporate’s , that means most of our work follows
corporate standards and procedures, we have a deal with strongest IT companies
for the programming & IT work , Oracle for finance & operations , Big 4 for audit
, our finance team is long-familiar in business for last 20 years , the founder is
leading the finance team for financial plans ,budget , cash flow, work in
progress, we believe this company owned by coin holders , the funds is
controlled by very strong team , also our sales team holding strong experience in
crypto currency sales , and financial services products too, as our primary
concern is business not for selling Coins, we will request overflowing list from
our HR department for the full staff which will be appreciated by all.
We are serving around 30 years of experience in Risk management and
insurance, the database is very lengthy and as we clarified our target is the
business module which will assist the Coin holders to stand top in the business
market. We have in house investment department dealing with corporates,
investors, clients. We have a group team for providing weekly reports for the
business plans and key performance indicators (KPI) are utilized as well. Our
internal policies and procedures provides enormous supports to our business.
Project Links
Site
: www.snn.cash
contract : https://etherscan.io/token/0xF5717f5DF41eA67Ef67DFD3c1d02F9940bcF5d08
twitter
: https://mobile.twitter.com/sechainsnn
telegram : https://t.me/SeChain
Facebook : https://www.facebook.com/pg/thesechain/
Exchange : https://www.finexbox.com/market/pair/SNN-BTC
email
: admin@snn.cash

SeChain

