SOMESING WHITEPAPER

WHITEPAPER V3.0 – Jul 2020

[EN]

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Why SOMESING

3

Business model

10

Technology

17

Future Plan

21

Team & Others

25

The Roadmap

29

What Happen

35

Disclaimers

42

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

2

Why SOMESING?

Which App is Yours ?
Karaoke Apps

･ Global No.1 ‘S-app’
･ 200 Million Downloads

･ Korea No.1 ‘E-app’
･ 8 Million Downloads

Karaoke App Market
As the development of internet network and smart devices
progresses, the Karaoke application has founded the platform for
the Karaoke market by providing easy access and availabilities to
many countries, especially in which the Karaoke culture has not
been initially present. Currently, many Karaoke application
products have launched globally, and the number of users are
estimated at around 500 million.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

4

Singing is Consuming the Accompaniment(MR)?

Singing is Creative Work!
The previous Karaoke application had provided music covers to
users with limitations in its free services, which demand additional
fees to users for other services.

Although the users may have formed a significant number of fans
from the music that they created, the only rewards the users
received were the words of encouragements without any financial
element in it.
This seemingly unfair reward distribution and reward system have
been formed by undervalued recognition of the music composing
industry in which many countries overlook the financial value of
creative work.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

5

Big Challenges

SingLovers Pay All

SingLovers Get Nothing
Note- SingLovers : The SOMESING users that love singing and value it as a way of expression, conveying their thoughts and individual principles through their creative works of music.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

6

SOMESING for SingLovers
The music has been an integral part of people’s lives in every culture and society around the globe.
Now, the creative work of composing music has become a tool and way to express one’s value and thought.
This collection of individual creativity in music leads our world to being filled with beauty and diversity.

SOMESING is a platform for SingLovers.
Anyone can enjoy the music that they like.
The enhancement or recreation / remix of new or existing music pieces are rewarded fairly.
The fair reward distribution is enabled by the Blockchain technology.
Everyone that enjoy the creation activities of music receives the rewards and rewards for the music that they created.
This will lead the creative work and activities to its exponential growth, providing tremendous inspiration to
SingLovers on peer-to-peer basis.
SOMESING will enable every participant to become active creators of music.
The fair rewarding and reward distribution system will motivate those creators to sustain their creativity within
SOMESING’s ecosystem and its work stream, resulting in the fruitful world of music.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

7

Big Challenges _ SingLovers Pay For Everything
The current system of our Karaoke application product provides music covers and depends its
administrative / marketing and platform management expenses solely based on the profits gained by its
SingLovers user fee.

SingLovers Pay Nothing
Business System
Revolution 1

All of the SingLovers in the world will able to have free access to more
than 40K+ number of Karaoke music covers including K-Pop and
other various genres at any time.
(Music cover provider to be added)

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

8

Big Challenges _ SingLovers Receive Nothing
As contents creators, the SingLovers users have composed their own music. While their music is in
popular demands, they have been unable to gain any rewards or profits out of their creative work.

SingLovers Reward Program
Business System
Revolution 2

SOMESING Ecosystem
The ecosystem of SOMESING is designed in a way that the SingLovers receive a fair
reward based on our effort of designing the promotions and events (e.g. Fans’ gifts,
supports, and other various collaborations of communities and events)

At SOMESING,
the reward distribution system will be automated and the reward to each SingLover’s for
their contribution of content will be calculated based on the SingLovers’ contributions
without any systematic interruption or manual modification.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

9

How SOMESING Work?

SOMESING Eco-system
1. Why Free Services ?

•Previous Karaoke App : Paid service

- Convert into paid service after using some free songs.
- User’s sign out due to paid service. (Smaller MAU/DAU than expectation)

•SOMESING App : Free Service

- Free service through block-chain and crypto currency.
- Providing studio-level high sound quality, Real Time Sync and Sound Effect.
- Minimization of user’s drop-off rate through free service and enable to expand through inflow of new users.

2. Why User-Centered Compensation?

•Previous Karaoke App : no reward or uneonomical

- Users pay all platform fees to use the service, however, there is no reward for the produced content or it is uneconomical.

•SOMESING App : user centered reward system

- Design of transparent reward system through block chain technology.
- Reward system that returns 70% of total accumulated tokens to users by forming a wallet for each song content users
produce and reward through sponsoring and gifts from other users who have sympathized with the content.
- Enable to expand fandom and community through reward system.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

11

SOMESING Eco-system
3. Why Staking ?

•As the number of cumulative subscribers increases, so does the token being staked

•Staking 1 : Token Deposit

- One time token deposit is required to save the song that users sing but the deposited tokens are returned to
the users at the time of withdrawal from the service

•Staking 2 : distributing period

- Saving tokens for each song content through sponsoring and gifts from the community for 4weeks to 8weeks

4. Why SOMESING ?

•Easy to play : Users can easily post song contents and enjoy them

•User Vitalization : Applying gaming elements in the service and design in a way that non-token holders
can receive the tokens according to their contribution for the ecosystem

•Referral Marketing : Viral through friend invitation function
•Global launching : Launching global App starting from March 2019
somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

12

Service Flow

Accumulating Coin

Supporting

Sing
Sing a favorite song freely

Recording
Set the Sync and Effect of the
song and save. To open the
storage function, deposit a coin in
a one-time deposit.
(However, returning this deposit
coin when leaving the community)

Posting

The coins are accumulated
from gifts, supports, events
and other co-marketing
efforts.

By posting my music on
SOMESING, the “Song Wallet” is
created automatically.(2weeks)

Distribution of
accumulated Coin
After a certain period of time, the
accumulated coins are distributed
to the stakeholders of the music
from the “Song Wallet” based on
each one’s contribution.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

13

Decentralized system
User
Rewards

System

･ Singer(Creator)

50 %

･ Ecosystem

20 %

･ Copyright

5%

･ Music Source

5%

･ Community

5%

･ SOMESING

15%

Based on the rate of contribution during the music content creation work, the SSX (accumulated coin) in the
Song Wallet is distributed without its central system’s interruption.
•
•
•
•

A block is created based on each song composed by the SingLovers in the SOMESING’s ecosystem. This block forms the Song Wallet.
Any SingLover of the SOMESING ecosystem can participate in composing the song that is consisted of the block in many various ways.
The logic behind the block enables the automatic distribution of reward.
The smart contract embedded in the block automatically calculates the contribution rates and assign the rewards without the central system’s
interruption.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

14

Expansion of SOMESING system

Paid Service

Free Service

In existing karaoke paid
service, Only 20% of users
act as an active user, 80%
of users disappear.

The transition to free
service Not only can the
number of active users
increase, but all users can
be activated.

Participation & Promotion

Expansion of User

All users increase the activity of
viral, external distribution, etc.
through the compensation
system.

SOMESING can be used not only
for the activation of existing users
but also for inflow of new users.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

15

Virtuous Cycle of SOMESING’s Ecosystem
Each stakeholder voluntarily enters SOMESING’s ecosystem to serve themselves participating in making
exchange for rewards for content creation, and the ecosystem grows by those entrants and participants
based on their growth of activities, which create the overall virtuous cycle in the ecosystem:
(e.g. Free services, joy of singing, reward distribution within the community, music marketing, rising value of coins, and distribution / reflecting opinions, etc.)

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

16

What Makes
SOMESING Unique?
Technology

Technologies : Sync & Sound Effect
Accompaniment(MR) key adjustment
•

Adjusts a song’s note base key to the user’s voice

SYNC, VOLUME and EFFECT CONTROL
•

Adjusts user’s voice input and audio latency control in real time

•

Controls volume of Accompaniment(MR) based on user’s voice

•

Provides effect control functions such as echo/reverb/room size

Implementation of RECORDING & MIXING PROCESS to obtain the best sound quality.
Improved user convenience and satisfaction.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

18

Technologies : Duet
User Part Editing
•
•
•
•
•

Provides personal edit function for each part based on user’s preference
Provides mimic function for any edit function once the part is edited
Provides switch function for male/female sections
Enables various duet content creation functions in the same song
Conserves edit resources during operations, while providing new music

It is possible to edit user part and recursive implementation of RECORDING & MIXING PROCESS
to maximize enjoyment by increasing communication with other users

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

19

Technologies : Video
Apply VIDEO through SYNC implementation of CAMERA + SONG
•

Maximizes the MCN function that enables various channels for expression of the
users

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

20

SOMESING’s Vision
OUR FUTURE PLAN

Pictures 1 : Collaborations with Streaming Service

SOMESING provides users with lavish music service
experience as it facilitates the changeover of ‘Listening
to Original Song’ function and ‘Singing’ function
through collaboration with music streaming services.
Besides, SOMESING promotes the integration of
external service users and SingLovers by letting them
share and/or purchase outside services other than
SOMESING using its coin, SSX. (SomeSing eXchange).

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

22

Pictures 2 : Blockchain Tech + AI Tech Personalized Service

Big data analysis and
conversational AI.

Personalized
Curating

Contents stored in SOMESING are also saved in
Block Chain, however, it is possible for users to
select encryption or decoding according to
their own decisions.
ex)
•
•
•
•

Analysing data of selection of songs
Analysing listeners’ selection of songs
Analysing listeners’ comments
Analysing the popularity and rankings of users, the flow of tokens
and analysing the habits of token usage etc.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

23

Pictures 3 : New Stars

Rewarding content creation and talent and
Discovering/Supporting new music stars
SOMESING provides SingLovers with various opportunities of
success through partnerships with off-line entertainment
agencies and diverse broadcasting / entertainment
businesses.
Entertainment agencies and broadcasting companies are able
to proceed the verification of popular appeal at SOMESING,
therefore, SOMESING will be a ‘bridge’ of on-line and off-line.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

24

Pictures 4 : Link between USERS & STARS

SOMESING
USER

STARS
Broadcasting / Fan Meeting / Concert

Providing opportunities to meet ‘Stars’ in both direct/indirect ways for expansion of user numbers.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

25

Who Make It Possible?
Team & Others

Team Members

Heuibae Kim

Hyunkeun Yoon

Kyle Kim

Taehee Ryu

Jaehoon Chang

Heeseok Choi

JunHee Han

Wonil Seo

COO

CSO

Jason Kim

CEO & Founder

CBDO

CGBO

CTO

CPDO

Blockchain Developer

Lead Server Developer

IconLoop Consulting Director

EMC/Adobe Account Manager Director of Marketing
SIEC College, Australia

Infraware R&D Team Leader

PENTABREED UI/UX DIRECTOR BitofGroup General Manager

General Planning and Operation LG Fashion HR Manager

Infraware FR Dev. Team

Doug Ahn

Dongwok Shin

Seungmi Lee

Eunkyoung Kim

Miju Kim

Jungeun Lee

Mihee Kim

Sungryung Ko

Hyeyoung Oh

CVO

Lead Server Developer

Lead Client Developer

Senior Client Developer

Senior Client Developer

Senior Client Developer

Senior Server Developer

UI/UX Designer

UI/UX Designer

Former Dialpad CEO

Infraware TT Dev. Team

SOFTSEED SW Dev. / CEO

SOFTSEED Dev. Team Manager SOFTSEED SW Dev.

Infraware

Infraware FR Dev. Team

PENTABREED Platform Designer

PENTABREED Platform Designer

Heejun Je

Chaeyoon Bae

KyungKeun Yoon

Myungsu Lee

Haearum Park

Kunhee Ko

Product Designer

Product Designer

Product Designer

Japan Business Manager

Global Biz

Global Biz

PENTABREED UI/UX Leader

line.games Designer

Hongik-Univ. Master of Design HI Corp. Business Dev. Team

Chinese language instuctor

IMAGINATION PLANT Designer

Heejung Kim
BM Team / Manage
CTS BM Manager

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

27

Mainnet

Blockchain platform developed by
Ground X,
a Kakao’s subsidiary company.
https://www.klaytn.com/

Partners

Global digital asset disclosure platform that
everyone can access providing transparent
and reliable information on virtual assets
https://xangle.io

No.1 multi-media service company that
leads the future media market such as
digital broadcasting, VOD, OTT, mobile
services, etc.
http://www.dlive.kr

A subsidiary company of TJ Media, No1.
Karaoke Company in Korea. Supplying
music resources to SOMESING.
http://www.ziller.co.kr

Indonesia's largest mobile
advertising platform (lock screen
reward app)
https://www.cashtree.id

A leading K-POP Idol training center built into
an entertainment network.
Operating programs in collaboration with
top-notch facilities, instructors, and large
stage performance.
http://www.sl-studio.co.kr/

Blockchain-based and
decentralized global digital
content platform company
http://www.contentos.io

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

28

SOMESING X SSX
The ROADMAP

Project is already started

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

30

Token Allocation

Every stakeholders will coexist as a community builder
Token

Description

Token Name

SOMESING Exchange

Token Symbol

SSX

Token Platform

Klaytn

Token Cap

6,000,000,000 SSX

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

31

Use of Proceeds
Rational expenditure plan for early setting of services
Description

Note

R&D

BM consulting / Service Planning / Service Development
Investment in security & server
Blockchain wallet & Coin Development

OP & EXP

Salaries expenses, Rent expenses, Insurance expenses,
etc.

Legal

Legal & Accounting expenses
Tax and related matters

Biz. Dev

Global office
Biz expansion (collaboration with Music industries)
Biz expansion (on-off usages)

Marketing

App global launching marketing
App marketing (on-off, TV, SNS, etc)

Strategic
Partners

Accompaniment partner
On-off collaboration partner

Dex

Reserve for exchange

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

32

SOMESING Ecosystem Inflation
1. Analysis on the demand of SOMESING Coins
The demand of SOMESING Coins is mostly influenced by the volume of coin exchanges between contents creators and consumers, and the range
of coin price set in the system. There is also additional demand of coins from sponsors and investors. Therefore, the total demand of coins is
influenced by exchange demand (T), price (P), rapidity of circulation(V), and investment demand (S).
The equation for the total demand is:
Md = Px(T/V + S)
Md : Demand of Coins, P : Price, T: Exchange Demand, V: Rapidity of Circulation, S: Investment Demand.

2. Analysis on the supply of SOMESING Coins
It is necessary to clearly define the supply mechanism of SOMESING Coins in order to enhance the stability of SOMESING Coin economy. In typical
economy, currency market gets stabilized when the actual currency supply equals to the currency demand influenced by production(Y) and
interest rate(i).
M/P = Md (Y, i)
In the SOMESING Coin economy where there is no effect of interest rate, the currency supply can be directly managed in consideration of
production. When proper inflation occurs due to additional issuance of SOMESING coins, this issuance can work as a tool to facilitate exchanges
among major actors who own SOMESING coins, and to help prevent potential deflation causing destabilization of the economy.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

33

SOMESING Ecosystem Inflation
3. Issuance mechanism for the currency supply
The issuance mechanism of new currency supply aims to maintain a steady growth of both demand and supply at a proper level. In other
words, Additional currency supply will be made in order to meet the future demand of SOMESING Token.
For this, the issuance mechanism is defined as followed.
The currency supply is determined by price range (Pt), exchange demand(Tt), rapidity of circulation(Vt), and investment demand(St) at a
certain time(t).
Mtd = Pt x (Tt / Vt + St)
Real demand, not considering currency value, is Mtrd = Tt / Vt + St.
At each time, the currency supply should be balanced with the currency demand.
Mts =Mtd
Mt = Pt X Mtrd
Pt = Mts / Mtrd
s

Inflation can be measured by price changes during each period.
Inflation rate = (Pt+1 - Pt)/Pt = Pt+1/Pt-1
Thus,
Inflation rate = (Mt+1s / Mt+1rd) X (Mtrd /Mts) -1
= (Mt+1s /Mts)X (Mtrd / Mt+1rd) -1
That is,
(Mt+1s /Mts) = (1+Inflation rate) X (Mt+1rd/Mtrd )
Currency supply is: Mt+1s = (1+Inflation rate) X (Mt+1rd/Mtrd ) X Mts
Here, the real demand growth can be defined as Mt+1rd/Mtrd.
Therefore, if the target inflation is fixed to a certain rate, the currency demand (Mt+1s) for the next period can be determined by the current
currency demand (Mts) and the growth of real demand.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

34

2019 1Q

What Changes Will Happen?

Freedom of Time!
Freedom of Location!
You can
sing and Listen
with no limits.
Social Music Service based on BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

36

Start remixing and create music in your own
music studio.
You can create your own music video and
music diary!
Social Music Service based on BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY

Share your music!

People all around the world will
applause and encourage you.
Social Music Service based on BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY

You will be popular with
your music in demand,
and the reward
and recognition will naturally
follow.
Because that is what the music celebrities earn.
Social Music Service based on BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY

Enjoy every genre of music on SOMESING.

Your life with SOMESING will unleash the limits
and Lead you to the whole new world of freedom
in music.
Social Music Service based on BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY

My Hand-Carry Karaoke, SOMESING!
Striving to create the perfect world for musicians, our SOMESING team has worked hard on the business design, development and
operations together for the past five years.

We cordially invite all of you, music lovers, to our new world of musical freedom.
To some people, music is their hobby;
It is their dream;
It is their best gift of life;
And it is their greatest footsteps towards the future.
SOMESING exists for all of the music lovers accessing our music platform freely and easily. We want to create one global community of
music, the SingLovers’ ecosystem. We have developed SOMESING, the Karaoke application, for all of those who love music.
Previously, we had faced challenges and limitations in regards to globally reaching out to everyone who wanted to create or recreate their
music with their own voices, although we developed the best-in-class music quality, sound effects and controls with great stability.
Now, SOMESING has transformed itself and has overcome this challenge, having found the solution from its unique Blockchain-based
technology by providing various music services for free to a massive number of people, who are willing to share their music contributing to
SOMESING’s ecosystem as SingLovers.
We look forward to providing services and to creating the world of music that everyone with passion in music creativity receives the fair
share of reward for the contributions that they have made. We hope this provides satisfaction and happiness to every SingLover in the world.

CEO

Disclaimer
Please read this entire section carefully. If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, please consult your legal, financial, tax or other professional advisor(s).
1.1 Legal Statement

a.

b.

This Whitepaper (“Whitepaper”), in its current form, is circulated for general information
purposes only in relation to the platform and applications described in the Whitepaper
(“Platform”) as presently conceived and is subject to review and revision. Please note that
this Whitepaper is a work in progress and the information in this Whitepaper is current only
as of the date on the cover hereof. Thereafter, the information, including information
concerning Emel Ventures (the “Company”) business operations and financial condition may
have changed. We reserve the right to change, modify, add or delete parts of this
Whitepaper or its associated website without notice for any reason or at any time.

a.

No Token should be construed, interpreted, classified or treated as enabling,or according any
opportunity to, purchasers to participate in or receive profits, income, or other payments or returns
arising from or in connection with the Platform, the Token, or products, or to receive sums paid out
of such profits, income, or other payments or returns.

b.

This Whitepaper or any part hereof may not be reproduced, distributed or otherwise disseminated
in any jurisdiction where offering coins/tokens in the manner set out this Whitepaper is regulated or
prohibited.

No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal commitment
in relation to the sale and purchase of the tokens native to the Platform (“SSX Token” or
“Token”) (as defined below) and no payment is to be accepted on the basis of this
Whitepaper. Any sale and purchase of the Token will be governed by a legally binding
agreement, the details of which will be made available separately from this Whitepaper. In
the event of any inconsistencies between the abovementioned agreement and this
Whitepaper, the former shall prevail.

c.

This Whitepaper or any part hereof may not be reproduced, distributed or otherwise disseminated
in any jurisdiction where offering coins/tokens in the manner set out this Whitepaper is regulated or
prohibited.

d.

No regulatory authority has reviewed, examined or approved of any of the information set out in
this Whitepaper. No such action has been or will be taken in any jurisdiction.

e.

Where you wish to purchase any Token, the Tokens are not to be construed, interpreted, classified
or treated as: (a) any kind of currency other than cryptocurrency; (b) debentures, stocks or shares
issued by any entity; (c) rights, options or derivatives in respect of such debentures, stocks or shares;
(d) rights under a contract for differences or under any other contract with the purpose or
pretended purpose to secure a profit or avoid a loss; or (e) units or derivatives in a collective
investment scheme or business trust, or any other type of securities or capital market products.

c.

This Whitepaper does not constitute or form part of any opinion on any advice to sell, or
any solicitation of any offer by the issuer / distributor / vendor of the Token to purchase
any Token nor shall it or any part of it nor the fact of its presentation form the basis of, or
be relied upon in connection with, any contract or investment decision.

d.

Where you wish to purchase any Token, the Tokens are not to be construed, interpreted,
classified or treated as: (a) any kind of currency other than cryptocurrency; (b) debentures,
stocks or shares issued by any entity; (c) rights, options or derivatives in respect of such
debentures, stocks or shares; (d) rights under a contract for differences or under any other
contract with the purpose or pretended purpose to secure a profit or avoid a loss; or (e)
units or derivatives in a collective investment scheme or business trust, or any other type of
securities or capital market products.

1.2 Restrictions on Distribution and Dissemination
a.

The distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper or any part thereof may be prohibited or
restricted by the laws or regulatory requirements of any jurisdiction. In the case where any
restriction applies, you are to inform yourself about, to obtain legal and other relevant advice on,
and to observe, any restrictions which are applicable to your possession of this Whitepaper or such
part thereof (as the case may be) at your own expense and without liability to the Company or its
representatives, agents, and related companies (“Affiliates”).

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

42

b.

Persons to whom a copy of this Whitepaper has been distributed or disseminated, provided
access to or who otherwise have the Whitepaper in their possession shall not circulate it to
any other persons, reproduce or otherwise distribute this Whitepaper or any information
contained herein for any purpose whatsoever nor permit or cause the same to occur.

•

The Company or its Affiliates undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements should
there be any change in circumstances. By acting upon forward-looking Information received from this
Whitepaper, the Company or its Affiliates’ website and other materials produced by the Company or
its Affiliates, you personally bear full responsibility in the event where the forward-looking statements
do not materialize.

c.

As of the date of this Whitepaper, the Platform has not been completed and is not fully operational.
Any description pertaining to and regarding the Platform is made on the basis that the Platform will
be completed and be fully operational. However, this paragraph shall in no way be construed as
providing any form of guarantee or assurance that the Platform will eventually be completed or be
fully operational.

1.3 Disclaimer of Liability
a.

The Token, the Platform and related services provided by the Company and its Affiliates are
provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis. The Company and its Affiliates do not grant
any warranties or make any representation, express or implied or otherwise, as to the
accessibility, quality, suitability, accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of the Token, the
Platform or any related services provided by the Company and its Affiliates, and expressly
disclaim any liability for errors, delays, or omissions in, or for any action taken in reliance on,
the Token, the Platform and related services provided by the Company and its Affiliates.

b.

The Company, its Affiliates and its directors, officials and employees do not make or purport
to make, and hereby disclaim any representation, warranty or undertaking in any form
whatsoever to any entity or person, including any representation, warranty or undertaking in
relation to the truth, accuracy and completeness of any of the information set out in this
Whitepaper.

c.

To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws and regulations, the Company and
its Affiliates shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other
losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue,
income or profits, and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection with any
acceptance of or reliance on this Whitepaper or any part thereof by you.

1.5 Potential Risks
By purchasing, holding and using the Tokens, you expressly acknowledge and assume the risks set
out in this section. If any of these risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, the business,
financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the Company or its Affiliates may be
materially and adversely affected. In such cases, you may lose all or part of the value of the Token.
Such risks include but are not limited to the following:
Risks Relating to the Tokens
a. There may not be a public or secondary market available for the Tokens.

I.

The Tokens are intended to be native Tokens to be used on the Platform, and the
Company and its Affiliates have not and may not actively facilitate any secondary trading
or external trading of Tokens. In addition, there is and has been no public market for the
Tokens and the Tokens are not traded, whether on any cryptocurrency exchange or
otherwise. In the event that the Tokens are traded on a cryptocurrency exchange, there
is no assurance that an active or liquid trading market for the Tokens will develop or if
developed, be sustained. There is also no assurance that the market price of the Tokens
will not decline below the purchase amount paid for the Tokens, which is not indicative
of such market price.

II.

A SSX Token is not a currency issued by any central bank or national, supra-national or
quasi-national organisation, nor is it backed by any hard assets or other credit. The
Company and its Affiliates are not responsible for nor do they pursue the circulation and
trading of the Tokens on the market. Trading of the Tokens merely depends on the
consensus on its value between the relevant market participants, and no one is obliged
to acquire any Token from any holder of the Token, including the purchasers of the
Tokens, nor does anyone guarantee the liquidity or market price of the Tokens to any
extent at any time. Accordingly, the Company and its Affiliates cannot ensure that there
will be any demand or market for the Tokens, or that the price upon which the Tokens
were purchased is indicative of the market price of the Tokens if they are made available
for trading on a cryptocurrency exchange.

1.4 Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements
a.

b.

Certain information set forth in this Whitepaper includes forward-looking statements
regarding the future of the project, future events, achievements, and projections. These
statements are not statements of historical fact and may be identified by but not limited to
words and phrases such as “will”, “estimate”, “believe”, “expect”, project”, “anticipate”, or
words of similar meaning. Such forward-looking statements are also included in other
publicly available materials such as presentations, interviews, videos etc.. Information
contained in this Whitepaper constitutes forward-looking statements including but not
limited to future results, performance, or achievements of the Company or its Affiliates.

The forward-looking statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties. These statements
are not guarantees of future performance and no undue reliance should be placed on them.
Should any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, the actual performance and progress
of the Company or its Affiliates might differ from expectations set by the forward-looking
statements.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

43

Risks Relating to the Company, its Affiliates and the Platform
a.

b.

c.

d.

Limited availability of sufficient information.
The Platform is still at an early developmental phase as of the date of this Whitepaper. Its
governance structure, purpose, consensus mechanism, algorithm, code, infrastructure design
and other technical specifications and parameters may be updated and changed frequently
without notice. While this Whitepaper contains the key information currently available in
relation to the Platform, it is subject to adjustments and updates from time to time, as
announced on the Company’s website. Purchasers will not have full access to all the
information relevant to the Tokens and/or the Platform. Nevertheless, it is anticipated that
significant milestones and progress reports will be announced on the Company’s website.
The digital assets raised in the sale of the Tokens are exposed to the risks of theft.
Whilst the Company and its Affiliates will make every effort to ensure that any
cryptocurrencies received from the sale of Tokens are securely held through the
implementation of security measures, there is no assurance that there will be no theft of the
cryptocurrencies as a result of hacks, mining attacks, sophisticated cyber-attacks, distributed
denials of service or errors, vulnerabilities or defects on such blockchain addresses, or any
other blockchain, or otherwise. Such events may include, for example, flaws in programming
or source code leading to exploitation or abuse thereof. In such event, even if the sale of
Tokens is completed, the Company and its Affiliates may not be able to receive the
cryptocurrencies raised and the Company and its Affiliates may not be able to utilize such
funds for the development of the Platform, and the launch of the Platform might be
temporarily or permanently curtailed. As such, the distributed Tokens may hold little worth
or value. The Tokens are uninsured, unless you specifically obtain private insurance to insure
them. In the event of any loss or loss of value of the Tokens, you may have no recourse.
The blockchain address(es) may be compromised and the digital assets may not be
able to be retrieved.
The blockchain address(es) are designed to be secured. However, in the event that the
blockchain address(es) for the receipt of purchase amounts or otherwise are, for any reason,
compromised (including but not limited to scenarios of the loss of keys to such blockchain
address(es), the funds held at such blockchain address(es) may not be able to be retrieved
and disbursed, and may be permanently unrecoverable. In such event, even if the sale of the
Tokens is successful, the Company and its Affiliates will not be able to receive the funds
raised and the Company and its Affiliates will not be able to utilize such funds for the
development of the Platform, and the implementation of the Platform might be temporarily
or permanently curtailed. As such, distributed Tokens may hold little worth or value.
There is no assurance of any success of the Platform and the Company and its Affiliates
may cease the development, launch and operation of the Platform.
I.
The value of, and demand for, the Tokens hinges heavily on the performance of
the Platform. There is no assurance that the Platform will gain traction after its
launch and achieve any commercial success. The Platform has not been fully
developed, finalized and integrated and is subject to further changes, updates
and adjustments prior to its launch. Such changes may result in unexpected and

II.

III.

unforeseen effects on its projected appeal to users, and hence impact its success. There
are no guarantees that the process for creating the Tokens will be uninterrupted or
error-free.
While the Company has made every effort to provide a realistic estimate, there is also no
assurance that the cryptocurrencies raised in the sale of Tokens will be sufficient for the
development and integration of the Platform. For the foregoing or any other reason, the
development and integration of the Platform may not be completed and there is no
assurance that its systems, protocols or products will be launched at all. As such,
distributed Tokens may hold little or no worth or value.
Additional reasons which may result in the termination of the development, launch or
operation of the Platform includes, but is not limited to, (aa) an unfavorable fluctuation
in the value of cryptographic and fiat currencies, (bb) the inability of the Company and
its Affiliates to establish the Platform or the Tokens’ utility or to resolve technical
problems and issues faced in relation to the development or operation of the Platform
or the Token, the failure of commercial relationships, (cc) intellectual property disputes
during development or operation, and (dd) changes in the future capital needs of the
Company or its Affiliates and the availability of financing and capital to fund such needs.
For the aforesaid and other reasons, the Platform may no longer be a viable project and
may be dissolved or not launched, negatively impacting the Platform and the potential
utility and value of distributed SSX Tokens.

e.

There may be lack of demand for the Platform and the services provided, which would impact
the value of the Tokens.
I.
There is a risk that upon launching of the Platform, there is a lack of interest from
consumers, merchants, advertisers, and other key participants for the Platform and the
services, and that there may be limited interest and therefore use of the Platform and
the Tokens. Such a lack of interest could impact the operation of the Platform and the
uses or potential value of the Tokens.
II.
There is a risk of competition from alternative platforms that may have been established,
or even from existing businesses which would target any segment of the potential users
of the Platform fulfilling similar demands. Therefore, in the event that the competition
results in a lack of interest and demand for the Platform, the services and the Tokens,
the operation of the Platform and Token value may be negatively impacted.

f.

The Company and its Affiliates may experience system failures, unplanned interruptions in its
network or services, hardware or software defects, security breaches or other causes that could
adversely affect the Company or its Affiliates’ infrastructure network, or the Platform.
I.
The Company and its Affiliates are unable to anticipate or detect when there would be
occurrences of hacks, cyber-attacks, mining attacks (including but not limited to doublespend attacks, majority mining power attacks and “selfish-mining” attacks), distributed
denials of service or errors, vulnerabilities or defects in the Platform, the Tokens, or any
technology (including but not limited to smart contract technology) on which the
Company, its Affiliates, the Platform, the Tokens, rely on or any other blockchain. Such
events may include, for example, flaws in programming or source code leading to
exploitation or abuse thereof. The Company and its Affiliates may not be able to detect
such issues in a timely manner, and may not have sufficient resources to efficiently cope
with multiple service incidents happening simultaneously or in rapid succession.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

44

II.

Although the Company and its Affiliates will be taking steps against malicious
attacks on its appliances or its infrastructure, which are critical for the
maintenance of the Platform and its other services, there can be no assurance
that cyber-attacks, such as distributed denials of service, will not be attempted in
the future, and that any of such security measures will be effective. Any
significant breach of security measures or other disruptions resulting in a
compromise of the usability, stability and security of the Company and its
Affiliates’ network or services, including the Platform.

Risks Relating to the Participation in the Sale of Tokens

a.

You may not be able to recover the purchase amount paid for the Tokens.
Except as provided under any applicable terms of sale or prescribed by applicable laws and
regulations, the Company is not obliged to provide you with a refund of the purchase
amount. No promises of future performance or price are or will be made in respect to the
Tokens, including promises of inherent value or continuing payments, and there is no
guarantee that the Tokens will hold any particular value. Therefore, the recovery of the
purchase amount may be impossible or may be subject to applicable laws and regulations.

b.

You may be subject to adverse legal and/or tax implications as a result of the purchase,
distribution and use of the Tokens.
I.
The legal character of cryptocurrency and cryptographic assets remain uncertain.
There is a risk that the Tokens may be considered securities in certain
jurisdictions, or may be considered to be securities in certain jurisdictions in the
future. The Company and its Affiliates does not provide any warranty or
guarantee as to how the Tokens will be classified, and each purchaser will bear
all consequences of the Tokens being considered securities in their respective
jurisdictions, and bear the responsibility of the legality, use and transfer of the
Tokens in the relevant jurisdictions.
II.
Further, the tax treatment of the acquisition or disposal of such cryptocurrency or
cryptographic assets might depend on whether they are classified as securities,
assets, currency or otherwise. As the tax characterization of the Tokens remains
indeterminate, you must seek your own tax advice in connection with the
purchase, acquisition or disposal of the Tokens, which may result in adverse tax
consequences or tax reporting requirements for you.

c.

The loss or compromise of information relating to the purchaser wallet and your
method of accessing the Platform may affect your access to and possession of the
Tokens.
There is a risk that you may lose access to and possession of the Tokens permanently due
to loss of unique personal ID created on the Platform, and other identification information,
loss of requisite private key(s) associated with the purchaser wallet or vault storing the
Tokens or any other kind of custodial or purchaser errors.

c.

Blockchains may face congestion and transactions may be delayed or lost.
Most blockchains used for cryptocurrency transactions are prone to periodic congestion during
which transactions can be delayed or lost. Individuals may also intentionally spam the network in an
attempt to gain an advantage in purchasing cryptographic tokens. This may result in a situation
where block producers may not include your purchase of the Tokens when you intend to transact,
or your transaction may not be included at all.

Privacy and data retention issues.
As part of the Token sales, the verification processes and the subsequent operation of the Platform, the
Company may collect personal information from you. The collection of such information is subject to
applicable laws and regulations. All information collected will be used for purposes of the Token sales
and operations of the Platform, thus it may be transferred to contractors, service providers and
consultants worldwide as appointed by the Company. Apart from external compromises, the Company
and its appointed entities may also suffer from internal security breaches whereby their employees may
misappropriate, misplace or lose personal information of purchasers. The Company may be required to
expend significant financial resources to alleviate problems caused by any breaches or losses, settle fines
and resolve inquiries from regulatory or government authorities. Any information breaches or losses will
also damage the Company’s reputations, thereby harming its long-term prospects.
Macro Risks
a.

General global market and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on the Company
and its Affiliates’ operations and the use of the Platform.
I.
The Company and its Affiliates could be affected by general global economic and market
conditions. Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time,
contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the information
technology industry at large. Weakness in the economy may have a negative effect on
the Company and its Affiliates’ business strategies, results of operations and prospects.
II.
Suppliers on which the Platform relies for servers, bandwidth, location and other services
could also be negatively impacted by economic conditions that, in turn, could have a
negative impact on the Company and its Affiliates’ operations or expenses.
III.
There can be no assurance, therefore, that current economic conditions or worsening
economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant
adverse impact on the Company and its Affiliates’ business strategies, results of
operations and prospects and hence the Platform, which may in turn impact the value of
the Tokens.

b.

The regulatory regimes governing blockchain technologies, cryptocurrencies, Tokens, offering
of Tokens, and the Platform remain uncertain, and any changes, regulations or policies may
materially adversely affect the development of the Platform and the utility of the Tokens.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

45

I.

II.

III.

IV.

V.

Regulation of the Tokens, the offer and sale of Tokens, cryptocurrencies,
blockchain technologies, and cryptocurrency exchanges is currently undeveloped
or underdeveloped and likely to rapidly evolve. Such regulation also varies
significantly among different jurisdictions, and is hence subject to significant
uncertainty. The various legislative and executive bodies in different jurisdictions
may in the future adopt laws, regulations, guidance, or other actions, which may
severely impact the development and growth of the Platform, the adoption and
utility of the Tokens or the issue, offer, and sale of the Tokens by the Company.
Failure by the Company and its Affiliates or users of the Platform to comply with
any laws, rules and regulations, some of which may not exist yet or are subject to
interpretation and may be subject to change, could result in a variety of adverse
consequences against the Company and its Affiliates, including civil penalties and
fines.
Blockchain networks also face an uncertain regulatory landscape in many foreign
jurisdictions. Various jurisdictions may, in the near future, adopt laws, regulations
or directives that affect the Platform, and therefore, the value of the Tokens. Such
laws, regulations or directives may directly and negatively impact the operations
of the Company and its Affiliates. The effect of any future regulatory change is
impossible to predict, but such change could be substantial and materially
adverse to the development and growth of the Platform and the adoption and
utility of the Tokens.
To the extent that the Company and its Affiliates may be required to obtain
licenses, permits and/or approvals (collectively, the “Regulatory Approvals”) to
carry out its business, including that of the creation of the Tokens and the
development and operation of the Platform, but are unable to obtain such
Regulatory Approvals or if such Regulatory Approvals are not renewed or revoked
for whatever reason by the relevant authorities, the business of the Company and
its Affiliates may be adversely affected.
There is no assurance that more stringent requirements will not be imposed upon
the Company and its Affiliates by the relevant authorities in the future, or that the
Company and its Affiliates will be able to adapt in a timely manner to changing
regulatory requirements. These additional or more stringent regulations may
restrict the Company and its Affiliates’ ability to operate its business and the
Company and its Affiliates may face actions for non-compliance if it fails to
comply with any of such requirements.
Further, should the costs (financial or otherwise) of complying with such newly
implemented regulations exceed a certain threshold, maintaining the Platform
may no longer be commercially viable and the Company and its Affiliates may opt
to discontinue the Platform and/or the Tokens. Further, it is difficult to predict
how or whether governments or regulatory authorities may implement any
changes to laws and regulations affecting distributed ledger technology and its
applications, including the Platform and the Tokens. The Company and its
Affiliates may also have to cease operations in a jurisdiction that makes it illegal
to operate in such jurisdiction, or make it commercially unviable or undesirable to
obtain the necessary Regulatory Approval(s) to operate in such jurisdiction. In
scenarios such as the foregoing, the distributed Tokens may hold little or no
worth or value.

c.

There may be risks relating to acts of God, natural disasters, wars, terrorist attacks, riots, civil
commotions widespread communicable diseases and other events beyond the control of the
Company and its Affiliates
The sale of the Tokens and the performance of the Company, its Affiliates and/or the Platform’s
activities may be interrupted, suspended or delayed due to acts of God, natural disasters, wars,
terrorist attacks, riots, civil commotions, widespread communicable diseases and other events
beyond the control of the Company and its Affiliates. Such events could also lead to uncertainty in
the economic outlook of global markets and there is no assurance that such markets will not be
affected, or that recovery from the global financial crisis would continue. In such events, the
Company and its Affiliates’ business strategies, results of operations and outlook may be materially
and adversely affected, and the demand for and use of the Tokens and the Platform may be
materially affected. Further, if an outbreak of such infectious or communicable diseases occurs in
any of the countries in which the Company, its Affiliates, and the participants of the Platform have
operations in the future, market sentiment could be adversely affected and this may have a
negative impact on the Platform and its community.

d.

Blockchain and cryptocurrencies, including the Tokens are a relatively new and dynamic
technology. In addition to the risks highlighted herein, there are other risks associated with
your purchase of, holding and use of the Tokens, including those that we cannot anticipate.
Such risks may further materialize as unanticipated variations or combinations of the risks
discussed herein

1.6 No Further Information or Update
No person has been or is authorized to give any information or representation not contained in this
Whitepaper in connection with the Tokens, the Platform, the Company or its Affiliates and their
respective businesses and operations, and, if given, such information or representation must not be
relied upon as having been authorized by or on behalf of the Company or its Affiliates.
1.7 Language
This Whitepaper may be translated into other languages. If any disagreement should arise due to
different language translations, the version in English will prevail.
1.8 Advice
No information in this Whitepaper should be considered to be business, legal, financial or tax advice
regarding the Token, the Platform, the Company or its Affiliates. You should consult your own legal,
financial, tax or other professional advisor(s) regarding the Token, the Company or its Affiliates and their
respective businesses and operations. You should be aware that you may be required to bear the
financial risk of any purchase of the Tokens for an indefinite period of time.

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

46

Thank you

somesing.io
PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL : Contents are proprietary to Emel Ventures Inc. and provided on the condition of confidentiality. Provided information may be disclosed, reproduced and used only in accordance with a written agreement with Emel Ventures Inc. No implied licenses are intended and all rights are reserved

