Stacks 2.0 Apps and Smart Contracts for Bitcoin
Muneeb Ali
Whitepaper DRAFT v0.1
Dec 2020

Introduction
This paper provides an overview of the Stacks 2.0 blockchain, a layer-1 blockchain that brings
smart contracts and decentralized apps to Bitcoin. We introduce the first consensus algorithm
between two blockchains. Stacks 2.0 integrates smart contracts and decentralized apps
natively with Bitcoin's security, stability, and economic power.
Blockchains are the most significant upgrade to the internet since the Web's creation over 30
years ago. For the first time, you can define and engage with digital assets using open
protocols, unlocking new business models and capabilities that were not possible before.
Bitcoin is the earliest and most secure blockchain; it provides a new type of money that cannot
be controlled or altered by any single party [1. The Bitcoin network provides the foundations
for not just the Bitcoin cryptocurrency but a general settlement protocol.
Blockchains enable new types of computer programs: (a) smart contracts that can be
published on a blockchain to execute in a trustless manner and anyone can verify their outputs,
and (b) decentralized apps that are user-owned and avoid centralized servers. Ethereum
demonstrated the power of smart-contracts, and Stacks brings these capabilities to Bitcoin.
Our thesis is that decentralized apps and use cases will eventually get built on Bitcoin, the
strongest and most widely used blockchain network, instead of disconnected networks. In the
early days of the internet, there were several competing protocols. TCP/IP emerged as the
winning standard, and everything else was built on it. Bitcoin is that standard for crypto.
Given our thesis of Bitcoin as the standard for value settlement, we have built the first
consensus algorithm between two blockchains, called Proof of Transfer (PoX, that connects
the Bitcoin and the Stacks blockchains and extends the functionality of Bitcoin. Leader election
happens on the base Bitcoin chain, and new blocks are written on the connected Stacks chain.
The Stacks 2.0 blockchain brings (a) scalable transactions and (b) general-purpose smart
contracts to Bitcoin without modifying Bitcoin. Stacks miners use Bitcoin (BTC to mine newly
minted Stacks (STX. Stacks holders can lock their STX in consensus to earn Bitcoin, making
STX a unique crypto asset that is natively priced in BTC and gives BTC earnings.
Clarity language, a secure and predictable smart contract language, goes live with Stacks 2.0
mainnet launch. It was developed by Princeton and MIT scientists over the last two years.
Clarity makes it much harder to have smart contract bugs and allows developers to write logic
around Bitcoin state directly. We believe bringing smart contracts directly to Bitcoin can make
BTC more valuable as it can be put to productive use instead of being a passively held asset.
The Stacks cryptocurrency was distributed to the general public through the first-ever SEC
qualified token offering in 2019. Stacks (STX is used as fuel for Clarity smart contracts.

Disclaimer: This paper is not an offering for any security or token and is meant only for
information purposes. There are certain forward-looking statements in the paper which may
not prove to be accurate. Further, the information in this whitepaper may become outdated.

Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 1

Why Bitcoin
Bitcoin is the strongest sovereign blockchain. Bitcoin is a tamper-proof source of truth; a value
settlement protocol. Once you have the ultimate source of truth, other decentralized protocols
and use cases can be built on it. On the traditional internet, TCP/IP protocol emerged as the
standard and didn’t need to change for people to innovate on it. Protocols, once established,
are fairly hard to compete with. Bitcoin is sovereign money and a value settlement protocol.
The world will likely converge to one standard of value. We believe that this standard of value
will be Bitcoin, given the network effects, security, and crypto market dominance.
There is a misconception that Bitcoin is a “one-trick pony” and cannot have use beyond store
of value. It is possible to innovate around the Bitcoin settlement protocol and enable
general-purpose smart contracts and decentralized apps. Bitcoin does not need to change.
There are two fundamental challenges to building apps and smart contracts on Bitcoin:
1 Scalability: The base Bitcoin blockchain has a limited capacity for transactions.
2 Secure contracts: The Bitcoin blockchain has a limited scripting language and does not
allow general smart contracts. This design choice ensures security at the base layer.
The Stacks blockchain addresses the limitations of scalability and secure smart contracts and
enables apps and smart contracts for Bitcoin. We do this through a unique consensus
algorithm that runs between two blockchains. The Bitcoin blockchain functions as the
settlement layer and source of truth while smart contracts execute on the Stacks chain.
Enabling scalable smart contracts directly on Bitcoin has been a long-standing bottleneck, and
the Stacks blockchain unlocks that functionality. We enable this without modifying Bitcoin, a
critical design requirement for enabling such apps and smart contracts.
Bitcoin is currently used as a (passive) store of value, and the Bitcoin cryptocurrency is the
primary use case for the Bitcoin blockchain. Successful use cases presently being tested on
other blockchains can simply be ported over or built directly using Bitcoin.
Earning Bitcoin:
The security of the Bitcoin network and access to Bitcoin’s
crypto capital are benefits of our design. In addition, our
design enables a unique economic characteristic for the
Stacks cryptocurrency where STX holders can lock their
STX to earn BTC rewards from the consensus algorithm.
Bitcoin’s fixed, limited supply and adoption as a hedge
against inflation makes earning BTC attractive. Further, as smart contract usage increases on
the Stacks blockchain, BTC earning rate also increases (see Page 6.

Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 2

Stacks 2.0 Design
Stacks 2.0 is a layer-1 blockchain that connects to Bitcoin for security and enables
decentralized apps and predictable smart contracts. Stacks 2.0 implements PoX mining that
anchors to Bitcoin security. Leader election happens at the Bitcoin blockchain and STX miners
write new blocks on the connected Stacks blockchain. With PoX there is no need to modify
Bitcoin to enable smart contracts and apps around it.
There are two types of participants as part of the PoX consensus mechanism: (a) STX miners,
and (b) STX holders.
STX miners can view state on both the Bitcoin blockchain and the Stacks blockchain. STX
miners participate in leader election by sending transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain, a
Verifiable Random Function (VRF randomly selects leader of each round (while giving more
weight to higher BTC bids), and the leader writes the new block on the Stacks chain. STX
miners get newly minted STX (coinbase rewards), transaction fees paid to them in STX, and
Clarity contract execution fees of each block also paid in STX. STX miners express the cost of
mining in BTC and spend BTC to participate in leader election. The STX miners can model the
total value of a new Stacks block as a BTX/STX on-chain trading pair, and will participate in
mining if they can get cheaper STX from mining than from outside exchanges.
STX holders can participate in consensus and earn BTC rewards by participating in a process
called Stacking. To participate, users lock their STX for a reward cycle (approx two weeks), run
or support a full node, and send useful information on the network as STX transactions. STX
holders who actively participate in Stacking earn the Bitcoin rewards of that cycle. Unlike proof
of stake, there is no risk of slashing (economic penalties by protocol) for STX holders.
Stacks 1.0, an initial design with limited set of functionality, was launched on top of Bitcoin in
Fall 2018. Stacks 2.0 is a major upgrade and feature-complete design which is expected to go
live on mainnet in Jan 2021. This paper only covers Stacks 2.0 and replaces the previous
technical design of Stacks 1.0 2.
Scalability of Transactions:
The Stacks blockchain transactions can scale independently of Bitcoin; they only depend on
Bitcoin for finality. Thousands of Stacks transactions result in a single hash on Bitcoin; Stacks
transactions “settle” on Bitcoin automatically every Bitcoin block as part of consensus. Further,
Stacks introduces the concept of microblocks that give initial confirmation in seconds.
Microblocks are a main venue for future scalability research, where theoretically faster
consensus algorithms can run for microblocks that settle data on Bitcoin per Bitcoin block.
Bitcoin is used as a settlement protocol by Stacks. It serves as the source of ultimate truth and
archives hashes of Stacks block history. Finality of transactions is currently tied to Bitcoin and
we believe that Bitcoin offers a strong notion of finality that our design benefits from.
The Stacks 2.0 blockchain is written in Rust. Protocol details and the open-source code is
available in the Stacks GitHub repository [3.

Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 3

PoX Consensus
Proof of Transfer (PoX is the first consensus algorithm between two blockchains. Specifically
we present an implementation of PoX by using Bitcoin as the base chain and Stacks as the
connected chain. In PoX, leader election happens on the Bitcoin blockchain. Instead of burning
electricity on proof of work, PoX reuses already minted bitcoins as “proof of computation” and
miners represent their cost of mining in bitcoins directly.
STX miners bid for becoming the leader of the next round. The protocol selects the winning
miner (i.e., the leader) of a round using a verifiable random function (VRF. The leader writes
the new block of the Stacks blockchain and mints the rewards: newly minted Stacks for the
block, fees for smart contracts and transactions.
Bitcoins used for miner bids are sent to a set of specific addresses corresponding to Stacks
STX tokens holders that are actively participating in consensus. Thus, rather than being
destroyed, the bitcoins consumed in the mining process go to productive Stacks holders as a
reward based on their holdings of Stacks and participation in the Stacking algorithm.
PoX Parameters:
 Block reward: 1000 STX/block for first 4 yrs; 500 STX/block for following 4 yrs; 250 for the 4
yrs after that; and then 125 STX/block in perpetuity after that.
 Block time: Stacks blockchain produces blocks at the same rate as Bitcoin. Bitcoin blocks are
produced roughly once every 10 minutes, so that will be the rate for Stacks 2.0 mainnet.
However, microblocks can give faster initial confirmation.
 Block reward maturity window: 100 blocks, meaning if a miner wins a block, they will earn the
coinbase reward for that block after 100 blocks have elapsed.
 Stacking parameters: 2 reward addresses per block; reward cycle 2000 blocks (~2 weeks) for
a total of 4000 reward slots.
 Stacking threshold: the minimum number of STX needed is dynamic based on participation.
This threshold is 0.025% of the participating amount of STX when participation is between 25%
and 100% and when participation is below 25%, the threshold level is always 0.00625% of the
liquid supply of STX.

More details for PoX consensus are in the PoX technical paper [4.

Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 4

Clarity Smart Contracts
Clarity is a new programming language for smart contracts. The Clarity language optimizes for
predictability and security. Stacks 2.0 anchors clarity smart contracts to Bitcoin making it
possible for smart contracts to operate based on actions seen on the bitcoin blockchain.
Well-designed smart contracts can prevent bugs, but poorly designed contracts can
exacerbate problems. This is especially important given smart contracts are meant to keep
digital money on them. With Clarity, we took the what you see is what you get approach.
Clarity makes the behavior, cost, and performance of smart contracts transparent both for
developers and for automated verification and introduces post-conditions for added safety.
Decidable Language:
Clarity is a decidable language. A programming language is decidable if one can know, with
certainty, from the code itself what the program will do. Clarity is intentionally Turing
incomplete as it avoids “Turing complexity.” This allows for complete static analysis of the
entire call graph of a given smart contract. Further, support for types and type checker can
eliminate whole classes of bugs like unintended casts, reentrancy bugs, and reads of
uninitialized values. Finally, Clarity code can be analyzed for runtime cost and data usage.
Developers can predict what a given Clarity program will do, and how much it will cost.
Solidity, the implementation language for contracts on Ethereum [], is an undecidable
language: it is impossible to know precisely how a contract will behave in certain situations
without actually executing it in those situations. There are advantages to both types of
programming languages. But when it comes to smart contracts that lock up billions of dollars in
code, it’s critical to minimize risks.
No Compiler:
In addition to being a decidable language, Clarity is also interpreted. The contract source code
itself is published and executed by blockchain nodes. Removing any intermediate, compiled
representation (e.g., EVM byte code for Solidity) further minimizes the surface area for
introducing bugs. Publishing the contract source code also improves understandability.
Compiler bugs are doubly damaging in blockchains because while the programmed source
code may not have an error, the eventual program reaching the blockchain could. Any such
errors would require contentious hard forks — which are potentially infeasible — to remedy.
Visibility into Bitcoin State:
Clarity contracts have visibility into Bitcoin state, meaning
that contract logic can trigger based on pure Bitcoin
transactions. Clarity contracts have built-in SPV proofs for
Bitcoin and can make interacting with Bitcoin state much
easier for developers. Clarity contracts fork with Bitcoin, so
developers don’t have to worry about corner cases where
Bitcoin forks and smart contracts need to adjust to the fork.

Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 5

Stacks (STX Cryptocurrency
Stacks cryptocurrency (STX is designed primarily to be used as “fuel” to execute Clarity smart
contracts. Stacks are also used for other network functions like registering digital assets,
paying for transaction fees, and to publish Clarity contracts on the blockchain.
Stacks can be locked by STX holders to participate in consensus and earn Bitcoin rewards.
This process is called Stacking. To participate, STX holders run a full node, lock their STX, and
publish useful information periodically on the network. The annual earning rate of Bitcoin
rewards depends on several factors. For example, if 50% of the liquid supply participates,
along with other assumed parameters, then the earning rate can be approx 9%. See details [5.
Stacks cryptocurrency was distributed to the general public through the first-ever
SEC-qualified token offering in US history with 4,500 people/entities participating.
PoX consensus mechanism establishes a native exchange pair between STX and BTC and
makes STX a unique asset in that you can lock it to get earnings in Bitcoin. This is different
from traditional proof of stake assets that give a yield in the same cryptocurrency.
Long-term Value:
Stacks cryptocurrency, like other cryptocurrencies, has several risk factors that can negatively
impact the value of the crypto asset. Readers should see the Risk Factors section of the 2019
SEC offering for a comprehensive list of these risks [6.
The long-term value of Stacks is generally dependent on the growth of the Stacks network and
demand for Clarity smart contracts. To execute Clarity contracts on the network, users need to
pay STX as fuel (gas fees). For example, a decentralized exchange built as a Clarity contract
requires STX as fees to execute the logic of the exchange contract on each user interaction.
Given the unique property of Bitcoin earnings, we expect a subset of the STX liquid supply to
be locked and taken out of the effective liquid supply. Such long-term holders want to earn
Bitcoin rewards and actively participate in consensus. The value of the Bitcoin rewards going
to STX holders depends on (a) coinbase rewards and (b) network usage. If more Clarity
contracts get executed on the network then the Bitcoin rewards for Stacking increase as well.
In the initial years, 1000 STX per new block are released as newly minted tokens (coinbase
rewards). In addition to coinbase rewards, fees for contracts and transactions also determine
how miners value a block. If network usage goes up then the value of the block to miners goes
up because of the higher contract and transaction fees. This means higher Bitcoin bids for
blocks and more BTC rewards flowing to STX holders that actively participate in consensus.

Coinbase
STX

Clarity
fees

Transaction
fees

* Coinbase STX follow a
fixed predefined schedule.
* Clarity & transaction fees go
up or down with network usage.

[BTC bids proportional to the value of a STX block]
Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 6

Token Economics
The Stacks cryptocurrency has 1.32 billion (1,320M STX in the genesis block [14. These STX
were distributed through various offering in 2017 and 2019. The 2017 offering distributed STX
at a $0.12 price, the 2019 Reg S offering at $0.25, and the 2019 SEC qualified offering at $0.30.
Figure 1 below gives the breakdown of the genesis block tokens.

The Stacks cryptocurrency has a predefined future supply that reaches approx 1,818M STX by
year 2050 (a reduction from the earlier 2,040M number [14. By end-Jan 2021, approx 1,006M
of the 1,320M genesis block STX will be liquid and the remaining will unlock monthly following
various locks. For example, STX allocated for founders and employees follow a 3 year
unlocking and a subset of these will unlock between Jan 2021 and Nov 2021. Figure 2 shows
the increase in total circulating supply of Stacks until 2050. See [7 for more details.

Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 7

Stacks Ecosystem
The Stacks ecosystem is a collection of independent entities, developers, and community
members working to build a user-owned internet on Bitcoin.
Project History:
The project got its start at the Princeton Computer Science Department in 2013 as an effort to
build a better internet. Muneeb Ali and Ryan Shea went through Y Combinator in 2014 and
recruited other Princeton computer scientists for initial R&D. Early investors include Union
Square Ventures, Naval Ravikant, SV Angel and others. Muneeb’s 2017 PhD thesis laid the
technical foundations of a user-owned internet built on blockchains [8.
The project raised $47M in a token offering for the Stacks cryptocurrency in 2017, and an
additional $23M through the first-ever SEC-qualified US Reg A offering and concurrent Reg S
offering in 2019. More than 4,500 Stacks holders participated in these offering, including USV,
Lux, DCG, Winklevoss Capital, Blockchain Capital, Foundation Capital, Hashkey, Fenbushi, and
others.
Decentralized Ecosystem:
Blockstack PBC, a public benefit corp, worked on the early R&D, protocol design, and public
infrastructure after raising a Series A in 2017. The public infrastructure building phase
completed in late 2020 and Blockstack PBC rebranded to Hiro Systems to narrowly focus on
developer tools after the launch of Stacks 2.0.
In 2020, following a path to decentralization, several independent entities emerged in the
Stacks ecosystem. These include the non-profit Stacks Foundation, a community focused
entity Freehold, a mining and Asia markets focused entity Daemon Technologies, along with
New Internet Labs and Secret Key Labs that work on independent user clients. There are 400
apps in the Stacks ecosystem developed by independent developers and entities.
In Fall 2020, Blockstack PBC released a legal memo summary that details the transition to a
non-security status for the Stacks (STX cryptocurrency in the US 9.

Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 7

Stacks 2.0 Mainnet Launch
The Stacks 2.0 launch, currently anticipated on Jan 14th 2021, is closer to the launch of a
whole new project than an upgrade from Stacks 1.0. Stacks 2.0 is our master design and solves
two long-standing problems with Bitcoin (a) scalability of transactions and (b) enabling smart
contracts without modifying the main Bitcoin blockchain itself.
Start of Mining:
The launch of Stacks 2.0 mainnet requires adoption by at least 20 independent miners. The
miners need to register themselves in the .miner namespace and follow other steps [10. With
the start of mining, 1000 STX per block will be released as newly minted STX (as incentive for
STX miners to package/write new STX blocks). The start of mining may be thought of as a
small new decentralized exchange coming online in the ecosystem. Roughly 150K STX per day
will be “traded” through mining in the BTC/STX on-chain pair. Like other blockchains, miners
will only mine new blocks if it is profitable for them to do so. For Stacks 2.0, this is expected to
mean that miners can get cheaper STX through the BTC/STX mining pair exchange as
compared to other exchanges that currently support BTC/STX pairs (like Binance). The “trading
volume” on the mining exchange pair is expected to be relatively small compared to normal
exchanges, given that exchanges like Binance currently do approx millions of STX in trade
volume (compared to the 150K STX upper limit on the mining pair).
Earning Bitcoin:
With the Stacks 2.0 mainnet launch, a subset of the liquid STX supply may get locked to
actively participate in consensus. If 50% of the liquid supply participates in earning BTC
rewards, along with other assumed parameters, then the BTC earnings can be approx 9% 5.
The minimum number of STX required to participate in consensus is dynamic and depends on
the percent of liquid supply that is actively participating. If 50% of the liquid supply is
participating and 950M is the liquid supply then 120K minimum STX are required to participate
in Stacking. However, STX holders can use pooling services and delegation to service
providers is supported by the network.
Clarity Contracts:
The ability to publish and execute Clarity smart contracts will go live with Stacks 2.0 mainnet
launch. All transaction fees and Clarity contract gas fees will be paid in STX to miners.
Upgrade Guide:
Stacks 2.0 mainnet launch acts as a hardfork from Stacks 1.0 and all STX balances and
ownership of digital assets will be automatically transferred to Stacks 2.0. There is no need for
any token swap between Stacks 1.0 and Stacks 2.0. STX holders will need to upgrade to Stacks
2.0 wallets [11 and exchanges and other node operators can follow the integration guide [12.

Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 9

Summary and Future Work
Stacks 2.0 brings apps and smart contracts to Bitcoin. Our thesis is that successful
experiments from various blockchains will eventually get created on Bitcoin. The network
effects of Bitcoin mean that smart contracts around Bitcoin have access to more crypto capital
and benefit from higher security. We believe that Bitcoin can be the foundation for a better
user-owned internet much like TCP/IP for the traditional internet.
Stacks 2.0 enables a new way for users to earn Bitcoin by actively participating in consensus.
Our work can make Bitcoin more valuable by turning passive Bitcoin capital into actively
deployed capital and bringing more apps and smart contracts to the Bitcoin ecosystem.
After the release of Stacks 2.0 certain improvements like auctions for block space, more
throughput and speed of microblocks, and advanced Clarity language features [13 can be
areas for future work that the Stacks Foundation and the broader community may work on.
References:
1 S. Nakamoto. “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System”, Oct 2008. https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
2 M. Ali, R. Shea, J. Nelson and M. J. Freedman, “Blockstack: A New Internet for Decentralized Applications”, Whitepaper
Version 1.1, Oct 2017.
3 Stacks GitHub repository. https://github.com/blockstack/
4 M. Ali, A. Blankstein, M. J. Freedman, L. Galabru, D. Gupta, J. Nelson, J. Soslow, P. Stanley, “PoX Proof of Transfer Mining
with Bitcoin”, Whitepaper v1.0 May 2020. https://blockstack.org/pox.pdf
5 M. Ali, “Stacking Earnings Model: Projecting Consensus Participation Rewards for STX Holders”, Oct 2020.
https://blog.blockstack.org/stacking-earnings-model/
6 Blockstack Token LLC, SEC Offering Circular, May 2019.
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1719379/000110465919029828/a1815736_1partiiandiii.htm
7 STX future supply spreadsheet. https://github.com/zone117x/stx-supply-schedule/
8 M. Ali, “Trust-to-Trust Design of a New Internet”, PhD dissertation, Princeton University, June 2017.
https://muneebali.com/thesis
9 M. Ali, “Stacks Cryptocurrency Expected To Reach Non-Security Status in the United States”, Dec 2020.
https://blog.blockstack.org/stacks-cryptocurrency-expected-to-reach-non-security-status-in-the-united-states/
10 D. Gupta, “RFC Stacks 1.0 -> 2.0 Upgrade Process”, Nov 2020.
https://forum.stacks.org/t/rfc-stacks-1020-upgrade-process/11346
11 Stacks 2.0 wallet. https://wallet.blockstack.org
12 Stacks 2.0 Integration Guide, https://docs.blockstack.org/stacks-blockchain/overview
13 J. Nelson, “After Stacks 2.0 Potential Features for Stacks 2.1”, Nov 2020.
https://forum.stacks.org/t/after-stacks-20-potential-features-for-stacks-21/11376
14 M. Ali, "Stacks Token Economics and Incentive Mechanisms", Whitepaper Ver 2.0.7, Oct 2019.
15 V. Buterin, “A next-generation smart contract and decentralized application platform,” Ethereum whitepaper 2013.
https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/.

Draft Whitepaper v0.1

Page 10

