StormX™, Inc.
FINAL
October 16th, 2017

Buy Zynga Poker Chips

This document is the intellectual property of CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc. Neither
duplication nor distribution is permitted without written permission of CakeCodes Global
SEZC, Inc.
Storm Play™, Storm Gigs™, Storm Market™, Storm Task™, StormX™ and STORM Token™ are
trademarks (™) of CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.
The information and views expressed in this document, including URLs and other Internet
website references, may change without notice.

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 2 of 20

StormX, Inc. (“StormX”) is rebranding its popular AdTech application “BitMaker” to “Storm
Play,” and contemporaneously kicking off both the increased gamification of, and the
integration of blockchain technology to, the app. To introduce blockchain technology into
its technology stack, StormX is introducing the STORM token, an ERC20-compliant token
that operates on the Ethereum blockchain. “Storm Makers,” who post tasks in the Storm
Play app, are required to pay for posts in STORM tokens, and “Storm Players,” who are the
users of the app earn rewards, denominated in Bolts, for performing tasks. With the
introduction of Storm Play, Storm Players now have the option of monetizing their earned
Bolts in STORM tokens. Storm Players may then become Storm Makers by in turn using
STORM tokens to pay to post tasks on the platform.
The introduction of blockchain to the Storm Play app marks the first step in an evolution
toward what StormX envisions as an entire decentralized marketplace for tasks – the
“Storm Market.” The Storm Market will operate similar to the Apple App Store or the
Google Play Store in that it will serve as a platform where Storm Makers and Storm Players
can create and accept tasks using smart contracts powered and paid for with STORM
tokens. StormX aims to make the Storm Market a platform that operates via a combination
of StormX APIs and other proprietary software tools and applications, along with
Ethereum-based smart contracts for various types of tasks which will execute using STORM
tokens. People worldwide can benefit by adopting the Storm Market model as a
mechanism for commerce, as it makes it easy for Storm Makers and Storm Players to
connect and interact with significantly reduced transaction costs.

Website: www.stormtoken.com

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 3 of 20

Abstract

3

Table of Contents

3

Overview

5

The Freelancer Marketplace

6

StormX Background

8

Gamification Design

9

Storm Player Types (6 Persona Types)

10

Storm Player Journeys

10

Introducing the Storm Market

12

Storm as Smart Tokens

12

Storm Market Launch

13

Future Development Plans: Storm Tasks

14

StormX Team

15

Team Overview

15

Key Team Members

16

Lead Advisors

18

Acknowledgements

20

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 4 of 20

Finding a steady flow of flexible opportunities to earn, not just to get by in life, but to
truly advance ourselves and our families is a global need.
In the current freelancer market, centralized industry leaders including Upwork, Fiverr &
Amazon, charge up to 40% in transaction fees. The current system has too many
middlemen making the global freelance market expensive and inefficient. In taking the first
step toward tackling this problem, StormX, Inc. (“StormX”) is rebranding its popular microtask application “BitMaker” to “Storm Play,” and contemporaneously kicking off the
integration of blockchain technology into the app with the introduction of “STORM
tokens.” Storm Play is the user portal into StormX’s existing micro-task marketplace, which
will be called “Storm Market” in the rebranded app. While currently Storm Market
primarily features promotional user engagement tasks, StormX’s vision is that there will
ultimately be three distinct categories of tasks:
1. Promotional user engagement.
2. Freelance labor, ranging from micro-tasks to app QA testing to longer
independent contract-style engagements.
3. Shopping-related opportunities where users can learn about or sample retail
goods and services.
StormX’s vision is that the Storm Market will operate a decentralized platform where
anyone will be able to offer or engage in tasks using Ethereum blockchain-based “smart
contracts” powered by ERC20-compliant STORM tokens.
The Future of Storm Market is here.
With the launch of the rebranded Storm Play app in conjunction with the distribution of
STORM tokens, the core elements of Storm Market are in place. Storm Market participants
soliciting engagement (i.e., sellers, advertisers, companies, etc. – we call them “Storm
Makers”) use STORM tokens to place tasks in the Storm Market, and the participants
wanting to engage (consumers, viewers, freelancers, etc. – we call them “Storm Players”)
receive reward units called Bolts in return for performing specified tasks. Bolts may not be
transferred off of Storm Market and are redeemable for STORM Tokens. STORM Tokens
may then be resold, used to pay for the listing of tasks on Storm Market or utilized in any
way the holder sees fit. (As detailed below, for a transition period, Storm Players will
continue to be able to choose to convert Bolts to ETH, BTC, or STORM tokens, but once the
transition is complete, Bolts will only be transferrable to STORM tokens.)

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 5 of 20

Blockchain is revolutionary.
As demonstrated by the success and growth of Blockchain-based distributed computing
networks like Bitcoin and Ethereum, the future of the Internet involves decentralized,
efficient, inclusive, and global ecosystems. StormX believes that blockchain-based
marketplaces will be a critical foundation to global, digital ecosystems. The creation and
integration of STORM tokens into Storm Play reflect StormX’s vision to fully integrate
blockchain technology into Storm Market. At launch, Storm Market will remain a centralized
platform, but the StormX team is developing blockchain-based smart contracts that will
decentralize the process of creating and engaging in tasks in Storm Market, removing
inefficiencies, and enabling Storm Makers and Storm Players to engage directly with each
other in an open and transparent platform powered by STORM tokens.
Ultimately, the Storm Market will seek to enable ways to earn rewards and compensation
through gamified micro-tasks and other engagement tasks and freelance work from
anywhere, at any time, on any device, by:
1. Making it easier to find new opportunities
2. Making it easier to advance
3. Making it easier to engage, no matter what role a person is playing
StormX’s Principles:
1. Effective global inclusion can only happen when all marketplace participants can
negotiate and settle efficiently
2. The ability to earn and improve one’s condition is a basic human right
3. Efficiency is about respecting the most valuable resource of all, time

There has been a major shift in the freelancer marketplace over the last five years.
Today, employers place a much higher emphasis on technology and automation, rendering
the traditional work schedule nearly obsolete. Companies hire people from all over the
world while maintaining operational efficiencies and reducing costs. The digital world
allows for a company to hire a software developer from Brazil, a user experience designer
from England, and community manager from India. This is a major advantage to both
parties: task performers are no longer bound by geographical location and task posters are
able to hire from the global talent pool.

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 6 of 20

Figure 1: The traditional information worker paradigm is being disrupted by technology and automation.

Centralized platforms have established this as a strong market. Companies like Fiverr,
Taskrabbit, Upwork, and Mechanical Turk have their workforces distributed throughout the
world, but existing inefficiencies are financially hurting many of these freelancers. Today’s
platform participants are losing up to 40% of their wages in platform transaction fees,1 with
long transaction periods, and they are not receiving the corresponding value in return. This
can create a toxic relationship between the task poster and task performer. Freelancers
want to earn more, and to keep more of what they actually do earn. Blockchain can
change these dynamics through the efficient listing of tasks and implementation of
rewards programs which can be monetized through conversion to STORM tokens.

1

For example, Mechanical Turk charges an additional 20% commission when requesters need more
than 10 people, as seen in: http://www.businessinsider.com/amazon-mechanical-turk-price-changes,
and https://requester.mturk.com/pricing.
CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 7 of 20

StormX started by taking a different approach to the digital advertising marketplace and
creating an advertising marketplace that rewards the engagers of gamified advertisements
with cryptocurrency through the android mobile application, Storm Play. Storm Play works.
This unique approach to the advertising marketplace helped develop the idea behind a
much larger opportunity to extend this network of potential Storm Players into a
marketplace with more earning opportunities consisting of a wide variety of gamified
micro-tasks.
Through Storm Play, StormX has already grown a market with 250,000+ monthly active
Storm Players. As of August 21, 2017, Storm Market participants have access to:

Figure 2: Storm Play’s highlight achievements.

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 8 of 20

Gamification principles are used throughout Storm Market.
Gamification is the process of adding games or game-like elements, such as a micro-task,
to encourage active participation. Gamification is the process of integrating game
mechanics in 'non-gaming' contexts2, such as websites, apps, and services, in order to
boost the user's motivation for participation, enhance the level of engagement and
increase user loyalty. It is an iterative process in which a gameful design framework is
deployed to foster the user's journey to mastery. People already have gamified services like
language learning courses (e.g. Duolingo and MindSpace). Games like Candy Crush, Clash
Royale and the Clash of Clans have already developed an array of effective gaming
techniques.
The main goal of embedding a 'gamification' layer to the Storm Market platform is to make
it effective in reaching objectives for boosting and delivering business results, like ROE
(Return on Engagement). Storm Play can make monotonous work much more enjoyable
through a gamified platform.
Gamification strategies and techniques create the easiest and most enjoyable way
for people to earn within the Storm Market.
●

Experience rewards system (Storm Players are rewarded with Bolts, formerly known
as Blocks) for:
○

Creating tasks

○

Completing tasks

○

Managing other Storm Players that a person referred in to complete a task
successfully

○

Helping categorize a task or helping to rank a task

“Treks” are how StormX internally conceptualizes the journeys designed within the platform
experience that help a Storm Player go from being a new user of Storm Play, to a master
user of Storm Play.

2

Dederding et al., 2011: https://www.cs.auckland.ac.nz/courses/compsci747s2c/lectures/paul/definitiondeterding.pdf.
CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 9 of 20

This platform has vast kinds of Storm Maker treks. Different Storm Players earn Bolts
which may be redeemed for STORM tokens by doing different kinds of tasks. Each actionloop and journey (described below in greater detail) corresponds to different kinds of
Storm Player types, to make them applicable to different kinds of real world people. Storm
Market uses gamified design to appeal to the following different types of users:

Figure 3: Six types of Storm Players

Gamification mechanics focus on enabling Storm Players through “journeys,” which can
range from beginner level to mastery level. The mechanics focus on helping Storm Players
become advocates of the Storm Market platform. Currently, a Storm Player can progress
through the following phases with respect to the Storm Play application:
1. Discovery phase
2. Onboarding phase
3. Getting immersed [habit building] phase
4. Mastery phase and replay.

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 10 of 20

Figure 4: Storm Players, and Storm Makers are going through a journey from beginner to mastery.

The basic unit of the gamification design process are “action-loops.” An action-loop serves
to boost a user's engagement. Storm Makers can offer Storm Players different ways of
aggregating Bolts, like QA Testing. Storm Players track their micro-task progress according
to their Bolts earned to date, which can best be characterized as the experience points a
Storm Player accumulates as he or she completes tasks. After performing the task, a Storm
Player can level up - that is, as the Storm Player’s number of total Bolts earned increases,
so does the Storm Player’s experience rank. Different action-loops can be designed for
each of the four phases of the Storm Player’s journey to mastery on different treks. Once
the Storm Player is done they may redeem their aggregated Bolts for STORM tokens.

Figure 5: Action loops are the micro-engagement engines that create an effective gamification framework

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 11 of 20

An effective gamification design framework includes action-loops that take into account the
user’s intrinsic motivation. This means that effective gamification depends on the ability to
provide appropriate feedback to the user, as shown in the diagram below. This positive
feedback comes in the form of Bolts.

Figure 6: User intrinsic motivation driven approach.

3

Storm Play has shown significant growth by providing users with a gamified AdTech
experience, and StormX sees this gamification model as the foundational point for creating
an improved marketplace for not just advertising, but all sorts of microtasks. As StormX
integrates blockchain technology and adds additional features, all players involved in the
marketplace benefit.

StormX is rebranding and launching Storm Market, which operates as a platform that
supports both proprietary applications and open-sourced smart contracts aimed at
facilitating transactions in a micro-task marketplace. The Storm Market network provides
network participants with rewards (Bolts), tools, features, and other customized access via
STORM tokens.

3

Based on Deci & Ryan Self-Determination Theory, 2012

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 12 of 20

StormX is introducing the STORM token as an ERC-20 token that will facilitate transactions
within an opt-in, secured, gamified marketplace, that will eventually be run by blockchainbased smart contracts on Ethereum. The STORM token will be implemented to have the
option to be used as a Smart Token using the Bancor protocol, however, the Bancor
protocol technology will not be enabled at launch. The Smart Token template is an ERC20compatible token template. More information about Bancor can be found on the Bancor
website and the Bancor white paper.
At the launch of the network, Storm Makers will need to pay StormX using STORM tokens in
order to create micro-tasks in Storm Play. STORM tokens can be acquired through:
●

Storm Play, by aggregating Bolts that are redeemable for STORM tokens.

●

STORM token user acquisition token allocation, which will be dispensed through
Storm Play channels such as email, Storm Play, or social media.

The launch of the Storm Market will be marked by StormX’s sale of STORM tokens and its
contemporaneous rebranding and gamification of what was previously known as the
Bitmaker AdTech application to Storm Play. Specific examples of how Storm Market has
introduced gamified user scenarios are:
1. Marketing Visibility via Boosts: Many of today’s freelancers struggle with
being able to market themselves, inhibiting their access to more
opportunities. Within Storm Market, Storm Players can use their balance of
Bolts for boosts. Boosts give the Storm Player access to more micro-tasks for
a certain period of time.
2. Training: Many of today’s freelancers also struggle with understanding what
is required in terms of skill to gain access to different types of tasks. Storm
Market users can engage in training tasks to develop skills and receive Bolts.
Each skill has its own level to increase based on the number of tasks
completed. These training tasks also help the Storm Player understand his or
her current skill level and the gaps to close in order to reach his or her next
skill level, which in turn can unlock more tasks.
3. Gamified Project Management: Storm Players are rewarded for reaching
task milestones within complex tier tasks. Storm Players will be rewarded
when they complete a task milestone, which will help the Storm Player be

CakeCodes Global SEZC, Inc.

Confidential 2017 | Patents-Pending

Page 13 of 20

