TenX Whitepaper:
Programmable Money

1/15

Table of Contents
1. TenX: ​An Introduction
2. TenX:​ Our Vision
3. The Opportunity for TenX: ​Programmable Money
4. TenX:​ Our Mission
5. TenX: ​The Ecosystem
a. Wallet and Card
i.

TenX Card

ii.

TenX Wallet

b. PAY Utility Token
c. The TENX Rewards Token
i.

Token Structure

ii.

Rewards Framework

2/15

Since the publication of the original whitepaper on 21 June 2017 (the “​Whitepaper​”) and the
supplemental whitepaper on 25 April 2018 (the “​Supplemental Whitepape​r”), TenX has deeply reflected
on its vision, mission and values against the backdrop of the recent developments in the industries
relating to blockchain technology and payment services. This whitepaper (the “​Third Whitepape​r”) serves
as our renewed commitment to our community with a clearer articulation of the TenX’s vision, mission and
values.
Unless otherwise defined or the context requires otherwise, capitalised terms used in this Third
Whitepaper shall have the same meanings as adopted in the Whitepaper. For purposes of this Third
Whitepaper, “​TenX​”, “​we​” or “​us​” shall mean TenX Pte. Ltd. (as defined in the Companies Act (Cap. 50)
of Singapore), and “​our​” shall be construed accordingly. No regulatory authority in any jurisdiction has
examined or approved of this Third Whitepaper or any part thereof. No action to obtain such examination
or approval has been or will be taken by TenX or any other person under the laws, regulations or rules of
any jurisdiction. The publication of this Third Whitepaper does not imply in any way that the laws,
regulations or rules in any jurisdiction have been complied with to any extent.
Pages 2 to 11 of the Whitepaper shall apply ​mutatis mutandis t​ o this Third Whitepaper to the extent
applicable on the basis that any reference to “this Whitepaper” on such pages of the Whitepaper shall be
construed as references to “this Third Whitepaper”.
To the best of knowledge of TenX, save as disclosed in this Third Whitepaper, there has been no
significant new factor or inaccurate information included in the Whitepaper since the date of publication of
the Whitepaper.
Save for authorised representatives of TenX, no person has been authorised by TenX to provide any
information to make any representation which is not consistent with the Whitepaper, the Supplemental
Whitepaper, and this Third Whitepaper, any information provided by TenX to the public or such other
information in the public domain. Any such information provided or such representation made by any
person other than an authorised representative of TenX should not be relied upon as having been
authorised by TenX. The publication of the Whitepaper, the Supplemental Whitepaper and/or this Third
Whitepaper at any time does not imply that there has been no change in the affairs of TenX since the
date hereof, or that the information contained in either the Whitepaper or the Supplemental Whitepaper or
this Third Whitepaper is correct as at any time subsequent to each of their respective dates.

3/15

TenX:​ An Introduction
TenX was founded by Toby Hoenisch and Paul Kittiwongsunthorn in 2015. The two co-founders
met in Japan at a crypto meetup and went on to found one of the world’s leading global fintech
companies today - according to KPMG’s Fintech 2018 report. Michael Sperk joined Toby and
Paul soon after, as the third co-founder to complete the initial founding team.
After winning first prize at the DBS Blockchain Hackathon in 2015, they used the prize money
as initial capital to fund the business. By 2016 they were incubated in the PayPal Innovation Lab
as part of it’s inaugural batch and shortly after received additional seed funding from angel
investors Danny Toe and Steven Liew in Singapore. Toby and Paul worked hard on building
their product from scratch - a card that would let you spend your cryptocurrencies in real-time.
TenX grew in popularity and saw USD $80 million in funding at their sole ICO.
TenX is not just a card that lets you spend crypto. The company aims to be the bridge that will
transition the world from old money to a future with Programmable Money, which gives people
full control, whilst educating and protecting customers along the way.
The existing TenX payment system consists of

the ​TenX Wallet ​that can be funded with

different cryptocurrencies (available on iOS and Android) and the ​TenX Card​, which can be
used in almost 200 countries at over 42 million VISA points of acceptance online and offline.
TenX is headquartered in Singapore and is currently serving customers across several
countries in APAC including Thailand, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, and The Philippines.
With a fully passportable licence from the Liechtenstein Financial Market Authority in 2019,
TenX will be able to provide Electronic Money Institution (EMI) services across the European
Economic Area (EEA).

4/15

TenX: ​Our Vision
TenX believes in a future with Programmable Money - by the people, for the
people.

When blockchains power financial networks and all money becomes digital, it will not matter
where a person lives, they will have equal access to the global economy. It will not matter what
currency or assets they want to send someone, they will be able to. Whether they sit across the
table or in another country, they will be able to access a world without borders.
This will be possible, because with complete control over their money, entrepreneurs
everywhere will be able to create new services and will overhaul existing outdated financial
infrastructure. This will give birth to a truly global, digital economy that is accessible by all, with
programmability at its core. We will see rapid innovation bring down prices, the same way rapid
innovation came about when people got connected to the internet. Not only will the money of
the future be truly digital, it will also be programmable.

5/15

The Opportunity for TenX: ​Programmable Money
We believe that Programmable Money is on the brink of mass adoption. According to the last
published Global Findex Database in 2017, there were 1.7 billion adults that still remained
unbanked. In 2014 that number was 2 billion.
The key reasons for Programmable Money being on the brink of mass adoption are that people
either don’t have access to basic banking services or that they face problems with the existing
banking in their market, for example, costly FX rates, issues with savings and investments or
even just basic transaction fees. This problem differs market-to-market and the spectrum of
impact is vast.
In our view, there are currently three types of money in existence:
1. Cash: ​Cash is a public payment infrastructure that anyone can use to do transactions in
the physical world. Cash allows for full ownership.
2. Digital Money: ​Digital money is the money in your bank account or favourite challenger
bank. Compared to cash, it is run and operated by private institutions who can decide
whom they want as a customer as well as which services they want to offer to their
customers. This brings big limitations to the availability of digital money in the world. The
need for digital money - the money that is currently held in banks for example - is clear,
but there are limitations. It does not come with ownership, as it always requires an
intermediary to manage the money on the customers behalf and this impacts day-to-day
efficiency as well as potential for this type of money.
3. Programmable Money: Programmable Money, also known as cryptocurrencies or New
Money, solves the problems stated above by giving people full ownership and control as
well as allowing them access to this money anytime, anywhere, and in a borderless
manner. With its programmable nature, it is already used as a base for innovation and
allows us to build a global economy that is truly inclusive by being built on top of money
that has no borders.

6/15

TenX:​ Our Mission
Our mission is to transition the world from old money to Programmable Money ​by
providing global banking services built on top of crypto.
TenX will give users freedom from being able to access financial services that they do not have
today.

7/15

TenX: ​The Ecosystem
We envision a future where TenX gives our users access to any asset they wish to use. With
tokenization being a strong driving force in our industry, we can see a future where
cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, precious metals as well as loyalty points and air miles can be
accessed, used and seamlessly transacted on a global level.

Our existing products are the TenX Wallet app and the TenX Card.
The TenX Wallet allows you to hold, send, and receive cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ether,
and Litecoin, and the TenX Card allows you to spend supported cryptocurrencies at over 42
million points of acceptance globally.
We believe that spending crypto should be simple. Users just need to top up the TenX Wallet
app with Bitcoin and Ether, and spend seamlessly with their TenX Card.
The TenX Ecosystem also includes the PAY Utility Token and the TENX Rewards Token, both
of which are ERC-20 tokens built on the Ethereum blockchain.

8/15

a) Wallet & Card
TenX allows users to spend supported cryptocurrencies using a TenX Card that is paired with
their TenX Wallet.

The TenX Wallet is a mobile application that can be downloaded on users' iOS or Android
phones. It can receive, hold, and send supported cryptocurrencies.
The TenX Card is a physical payment card that can be ordered from the TenX Wallet by eligible
users. It allows the user to spend cryptocurrencies in their TenX Wallet seamlessly. The TenX
Card works via a tap, swipe, or chip-and-pin at 42 million payment terminals worldwide. When a
user spends with the TenX Card, the merchant receives payment in their local currency,
allowing for a seamless transaction.

9/15

i) The TenX Wallet
Serving as an important starting point for helping people get into crypto, the TenX Wallet allows
users to hold supported cryptocurrencies and complete transactions with their cryptocurrencies
easily. As we believe that ease of use is vital in the adoption of cryptocurrencies, the highly
intuitive and user-friendly mobile application for accessing the TenX Wallet offers a seamless
user experience.
With a view towards maintaining high standards of security for users, the private key to each
TenX Wallet address is secured through both the hot and cold storage solutions of TenX, and
other solutions are also being continuously explored.
Continuous software development, product design, and testing are a mainstay at TenX so that
we may provide regular updates to the mobile application with the objective of offering nothing
but the best-in-class user experience. Since January 2019, the TenX Wallet app has been
successfully been rebuilt in React Native, which allows for quicker iterations of over-the-air
(OTA) updates and other vast improvements to the user experience.

10/15

ii) The TenX Card
Eligible users of the TenX Wallet may apply for a physical TenX Card directly from the TenX
Wallet mobile application. The TenX Card allows users to spend their cryptocurrency balance
on the TenX Wallet with ease by paying at any supported payment point or withdrawing at
supported ATMs worldwide, as conveniently as local currency is used today.
All eligible users who apply for a TenX Card have to complete a simple account verification
process that is also known as Know Your Customer (KYC). Our teams review the data and
documents provided by the user applying for the TenX Card. After the verification process has
been successfully completed, the user receives their TenX Card at their physical address. They
can then link the card to the TenX Wallet app, and the TenX Card will now be ready for use with
merchants accepting VISA cards.

At any time, including at the time of a TenX Card transaction, a user is able to view in the TenX
Wallet an indicative exchange rate for their cryptocurrencies. A user is also able to select the
cryptocurrency with which they would like to make payment. For enhanced card security, users
can choose to receive real-time notifications upon the completion of each TenX Card
Transaction, and lock or unlock their TenX Card at any time. Full transaction details of payment
and withdrawals using the TenX Card can also be viewed on the TenX Wallet.

11/15

b) PAY Utility Token
The PAY Token is an ERC-20 token on the Ethereum blockchain, with a total supply of
205,218,256 tokens.
It will be the preferred token in our ecosystem. As the preferred token, we plan to allow the PAY
Token holders to:
●

Carry out TenX Wallet transactions using the PAY Token

●

Use the PAY Token as a fee payment asset

●

Receive referral rewards

●

Benefit from cashback features

●

Receive discounts

12/15

c) TENX Rewards Token
The TENX Rewards Token is an ERC-20 token on Ethereum with features of ERC-1400. There
is a total supply of 205,218,256 tokens. The TENX Token allows the token holder to accumulate
daily rewards that can be withdrawn by eligible holders at any time.

Rewards on the TENX Tokens are paid in PAY Tokens. The amount of rewards is announced
quarterly, with the amount depending on factors such as TenX Pte Ltd’s revenues, financial
position, cash flow, capital needs and general business conditions.
We acknowledge and are humbled by the support and trust we have received from the
community over the years. We know that TenX would not be where it is today without their
unwavering support from the early days of the token sale to present day. We envision our
community to be part of a decision-making framework that taps on the collective genius for
certain areas of TenX functions.

13/15

i) Token Structure
The token implements the ERC-20 and ERC-1400 (ERC-1644 and ERC-1594) specifications. It
grants holders the right to receive an amount of rewards that is calculated as such quarterly:
Rewards = (Quarter’s Deposited Rewards * Holder’s Token Balance / Total Token Cap)
Total Token Cap = 205,218,256
An eligible user can withdraw their share of PAY Token from the reward contract. A user is
eligible if they successfully complete account verification and meet these eligibility conditions:
●

Are natural persons (as opposed to a private or public organisation)

●

Are not citizens of North Korea

●

Are not residents of Afghanistan, China, Crimea Peninsula, Cuba, Eritrea, Gaza Strip,
India, Iran, Iraq, Kosovo, Lebanon, Libya, Myanmar (Burma), North Korea (the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea), Northern Cyprus, Palestine, Somalia, South
Sudan, Sudan, Syria, United States of America, Venezuela, or Yemen

●

Pass our Customer Due Diligence checks

The TENX Token smart contracts have been analysed with state-of-the-art tools for verification
of generic vulnerabilities and custom functional requirements.
A full technical overview of the TENX Token design can be found ​here​.
The architecture of the TENX Token smart contracts can be found ​here​.
The TENX Token source code is available ​here​.
A security audit of the TENX Token smart contracts was completed by ​ChainSecurity​. The audit
report can be found ​here​.

14/15

ii) Rewards Framework
Rewards are determined every quarter by the TenX Board of Directors, depending on financial
performance such as revenue in the previous quarter and other relevant factors.
We are committed to buying a number of PAY Tokens from the open market for the purpose of
paying out rewards and such number is disclosed during the quarterly awards announcements.
The rewards are then distributed into the TENX Token smart contracts in the following quarter.
Token holders accumulate their rewards daily, and eligible token holders can withdraw their
accumulated rewards at any time.
To learn about the process of withdrawing TENX Token rewards, please see ​this guide​.

15/15

