CryptoGuru PoC SIG, 2017-12-27
Public Domain v1.00

The Burst Dymaxion
An Arbitrary Scalable, Energy Efficient and Anonymous Transaction Network Based on Colored Tangles

Seán Gauld1 *, Franz von Ancoina, Robert Stadler2
Abstract
We describe the concept and implementation of a proposed layer to the Burstcoin cryptocurrency called “The Burst
Dymaxion”. This layer implements an arbitrary scalable, energy efficient and anonymous transaction network based
on colored tangles. Tangles are DAGs that can be seen as generalization of the blockchain. Coloring is a simple
tagging technique used in cryptocurrencies to allow for coexistence of various instances of a class in a common data
context. The Burstcoin network has several unique properties that make it our premier choice for implementation:
its Proof-of-Capacity (PoC) consensus algorithm is energy efficient, fair and anti-centralistic, the blockchain is very
compact and implements data scrubbing to reduce blockchain bloat and it has smart contracts. The coin has over 3
years of heritage and a community to bootstrap with, yet it is small enough to allow for significant improvements
without a long and paralyzing scaling debate. The original Burstcoin blockchain is used as underlying layer to open
and close an arbitrary number of general purpose transaction channels, similar to the Lightning Network proposal
of Bitcoin, but using IOTA-like tangles for propagation and verification. Each of these channels is not limited in
terms of capacity and number of transactions. This concept takes the best traits of the original Burstcoin, IOTA,
Monero, ZCash and the newest Bitcoin proposals to create a currency suitable for truly global use. It allows e.g.
banks, clearing houses, remittance processors and virtually all other market participants to use quasi-private, yet
decentral and trustless transaction channels with desired properties.
Keywords
Burstcoin – DAG – Dymaxion – Lightning-Network – PoC – Ring-Signature – Scaling – Tangle – zk-SNARK
1 PoC

Consortium - a CryptoGuru SIG
Bestiale Institute of Technology
*Corresponding author: dymaxion@cryptoguru.org
2 Stronzo

3.4 Blockchain Enforcing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Contents
Introduction

1

1

Building Blocks

3

1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7

Burstcoin Blockchain . . . . . . . .
Smart Contracts . . . . . . . . . . .
DAGs and The Tangle . . . . . . .
zk-SNARK vs. Ring Signature .
Blockchain Binding with ACCTs
Lightning Network . . . . . . . . . .
Coloring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2

Putting it All Together

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4

Dymaxion Tangle vs. IOTA Tangle
Blockchain-Dymaxion Interaction
Using Nodes P2P for ad-hoc DLs
Dymaxion Anonymity . . . . . . . . .

3

Implementation Details

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

3
3
.4
.4
5
6
6
7

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.7
.7
8
9
10

3.1 Opening a DL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
3.2 A Transaction within a DL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.3 Closing a DL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

4

Security Considerations

12

4.1 Collusive Nodes Attack . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
4.2 Spamming and DoS Scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
5

Results and Discussion

13

5.1 Prototype Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
5.2 Adoption Process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Acknowledgments

15

A

SpaceMint Paper Errata . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

B

The Burst/Qora ACCT Process . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

C

Burstcoin CIPs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
References

23

Introduction
Cryptographic currencies, or cryptocurrencies for short, have
been around for about 8 years now. After an existence on the
fringes, they are being perceived increasingly as disruptive
technology that may change the way how we will see and use
money in the future.

The Burst Dymaxion — 2/23

Figure 1. Cap Gemini/BNP Paribas: Number of Worldwide Non-Cash Transactions 2010-2020 (est.)

Despite their technical elegance and possibilities, cryptocurrencies lack mass adoption because of two critical factors: usability and scalability. While usability can be addressed with
sufficient engineering and development effort, scalability is
often a theoretical problem of its own.
The inherent features of a good cryptocurrency - decentralization and trustless design - often go contrary to traditional
methods of upscaling centralistic processes. While Bitcoin’s
pioneer achievement, the blockchain, solved the problem of a
decentralized trust, its inventor certainly left much headroom
for scaling that concept for a truly global use.
In fact, speaking of “truly global use”, let’s fathom the scale
of this concept. Assume you would like to support one hundred
million people world-wide to be able to use a cryptocurrency
like Bitcoin with an average of just 1 transactions per day (about

1.5% of the global non-cash transaction volume - see also figure
1). You would need a 400MiB blocksize to meet that demand.
This would imply a blockchain growth of over 56GiB per day.
Aside from the feasibility considerations, it is questionable
if a transaction for the acquisition of a sack of rice made in
China 2017 should be kept for all eternity on the blockchain and
thus in memory or on mass storage of all participating nodes
world-wide.
A concept to overcome many of the restrictions a typical
blockchain imposes on scalability was presented in the IOTA
white paper[1]. In this novel system, transactions are not broadcast over a network of participating nodes, some of which
(miners) try to put them into a block. Instead, network nodes
can validate transactions and by this validation work actually
earn the right to perform transactions themselves. The nodes

The Burst Dymaxion — 3/23

have unified roles and form a kind of systolic array[2] for data
processing. The data being a transaction propagated along a
directed acyclic graph.
Due to it’s success and thus increasing usage, Bitcoin started
to experience scalability issues, now commonly hitting its theoretical tx/s limit. A long scaling debate about pushing this
limit and removing other protocol constraints continues to the
present day. One of the suggested extensions to the Bitcoin
protocol is called the Lightning Network (LN).1 It is basically
a network of two-party ledger entries for participants who have
subscribed to a bidirectional payment channel. While a LN
solves many of the problems associated with high transaction
volume, micropayments and their cost, it is not a silver bullet.
E.g. it does quite little to increase the limits on the number of
concurrent users.[3]
Dymaxion is a term that Richard Buckminster Fuller associated with much of his work. It is a portmanteau of the
words dynamic, maximum, and tension and sums up the goal
of his study, "maximum gain of advantage from minimal energy
input."
We use this term for the Burst Dymaxion to honor the
achievements and influence of this true generalist and also because the geodesic dome - a structure Fuller helped to popularize - has very similar properties to what is proposed in this paper
for transaction propagation: Elements of the dome - while each
limited in resilience - distribute mechanical stress throughout
the whole structure, making geodesic domes able to withstand
very heavy loads for their size. In our proposal, the Dymaxion
is a set of tangle-based lightning networks, each single one used
for propagating transactions. Each single of these networks
distributes “transactional stress” among its whole network of
participating nodes, allowing for arbitrary scalability. The more
nodes participate, the higher the transactional capacity of each
of the currently active networks becomes. As any number of
these tangle-based LNs can co-exist at the same time, we speak
of Dymaxion layers (DL).
We therefore present nothing short of an energy-efficient
cryptocurrency that is able to sustain the total global load of
non-cash transactions.
Below all of this is a small and very moderately growing
energy-efficient blockchain with Proof-of-Capacity consensus
used for bookkeeping the opening and closing of the Dymaxion
layers above it. See also central figure 7.

Proof-of-Work (PoW) systems and is responsible for making
Burstcoin energy efficient. Efficiency - while similar to Proofof-Stake (PoS) systems, is still achieved by a low barrier to
entry, where you do not need to acquire a significant stake of
the currency in order to be able to participate in the mining
consensus[4].

Figure 2. The main chain (black) consists of the longest series

of blocks from the genesis block (green) to the current block
(orange). Orphan blocks (purple) exist outside of the main
chain on so called forks† .

1. Building Blocks
1.1 Burstcoin Blockchain
Burstcoin is a digital cryptocurrency and payment system derived from the Nxt cryptocurrency. As such it is based on the
blockchain technology (Figure 2 shows the general concept of
a blockchain with the most essential terms explained), but is
using a special class of consensus algorithm called proof-ofcapacity (PoC). This algorithm allows for the usage of storage
space instead of raw computational power as is being used in
1 Ethereum

has a very similar concept under the name Raiden Network

1.2 Smart Contracts
A blockchain can be seen as a distributed database that is ensuring consistency and validity by verification work done by
a majority of participating nodes in this blockchains network.
While cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin speak of the blockchain
as a public ledger, others such as Ethereum put an emphasis on
smart contracts - and not only monetary transactions - to store
in their blockchain.
A smart contract is a procedural way, usually done by a computer program, to facilitate, verify, or enforce the negotiation

The Burst Dymaxion — 4/23

or performance of a contract. Compared to their “inanimate”
paper-based ancestors, smart contracts also fulfill the role of
otherwise needed lawyers (verification), notaries (validation)
and executors (enforcing). For this very reason, smart contracts
are seen as a disruptive technology to future digital economies.
Burstcoin has been given a smart contract system in 2014.
The formalism used is called AT (Automated Transaction) and
has been proposed and implemented by CIYAM[5].
As turing-complete formalism, ATs are both powerful (expressiveness) and dangerous (verifiability) and have been used
only sparsely as templates to facilitate simpler smart contracts
(SCs), such as lotteries, crowdfunding and an asset exchange.
Because of the expressiveness of the formalism, other possible
applications are basically limitless, yet have to be designed
with great care to avoid situations such as the DAO debacle
that led to the hard fork and community split of Ethereum and
Ethereum Classic.2
1.3 DAGs and The Tangle
A directed acyclic graph (DAG) is a restricted form of a finite
directed graph that has no directed cycles. In short, it is a
data structure with interesting computational properties and
widespread use in computer science. We assume the reader has
basic understanding of graph theory and encourage to acquire
it otherwise. Figure 3 shows an example of a simple DAG.

main proposition of this concept, is its feasibility to provide a
good infrastructure for microtransactions, mainly targeted at
the IoT industry.
Any microtransaction-capable infrastructure seeks to overcome the problem of paying a fee that is larger than the amount
of value being transferred. The smaller the value of a microtransaction becomes, the more applications open up to it (tipping, machine-to-machine transactions, microservices, spam
protection etc.) but the harder it gets to lower the transaction
cost below the value being transferred. Ideally the transaction
cost would be zero, but then again - what would the incentive
for a transaction processor be?
IOTA answers this dilemma by unifying the roles of network participants. There is no more discrimination between a
transaction (tx) issuer and a tx verifier - a node has both these
roles. The cost for issuing a tx is to provide the verification to
at least two other txs. Doing this, the network security is kept
up by issuing transactions. It is assumed that the nodes check
if the approved transactions are not conflicting. If a node finds
that a transaction is in conflict with the tangle history, the node
will not approve the conflicting transaction. If a node issues
a new transaction that approves conflicting transactions, then
it risks that other nodes will not approve its new transaction,
which will fall into oblivion.
While not discussing the implementation, the IOTA white
paper suggests there being a hidden PoW in the validation
process:
For a node to issue a valid transaction, the node
must solve a cryptographic puzzle similar to those
in the Bitcoin blockchain. This is achieved by
finding a nonce such that the hash of that nonce
concatenated with some data from the approved
transaction has a particular form.
The “incentive to participate” for a node (assume a node
has no need to perform transactions, so why should it validate
other transactions) is achieved by nodes keeping statistics on
their peers, e.g. how many new transactions are received from
a neighbor. If one particular node is “too lazy”, it will be
dropped by its neighbors. Therefore, even if a node does not
issue transactions, and hence has no direct incentive to share
new transactions that approve its own transaction, it still has
incentive to participate.

Figure 3. A simple directed acyclic graph consisting of 5

vertices (a-e) and 8 edges connecting them. The arrows stand
for a direction and there are no loops - therefore acyclic.
The IOTA white paper [1] describes a blockchain-less approach of ensuring transactions in a cryptocurrency with the
use of a so called “Tangle”, which is in essence a DAG. The
2 https://www.coindesk.com/

ethereum-classic-explained-blockchain/

1.4 zk-SNARK vs. Ring Signature
The acronym zk-SNARK stands for “Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge,” and refers to a
proof construction where one can prove possession of certain information, e.g. a secret key, without revealing that information,
and without any interaction between the prover and verifier.
A ring signature is a type of digital signature that can be
performed by any member of a group of users that each have
keys (to sign messages). Therefore, a message signed with a
ring signature is endorsed by someone in a particular group of
people. One of the security properties of a ring signature is that

The Burst Dymaxion — 5/23

it should be computationally infeasible to determine which of
the group members’ keys was used to produce the signature.
Both concepts are central elements of cryptocurrencies with
a high focus on anonymity, namely ZCash[6] (zk-SNARKs)
and Monero[7] (ring signatures).

Both ring signatures as well as zk-SNARKs do have their
advantages and drawbacks in anonymizing transactions, which
leaves either of these functionalies as optional feature in the
setup parameter space for created tangles.
1.5 Blockchain Binding with ACCTs
Atomic Cross-Chain Trading (ACCT) is a mechanism, where
two (or more) parties own coins in separate cryptocurrencies,
and want to exchange them without having to trust a third party.
The term “atomic” here means indivisible, and refers to the fact
that sending coins on one chain and sending other coins on the
other chain cannot be performed independent of each other.
If these transactions could be performed independent of
each other, then while one party could fulfil their side of the
bargain and send some coins on one chain, the other party
would have the option of going back on his end of the bargain
and simply not following through with the protocol, ending up
with both coins.
A decentral exchange where two parties, A and B, want to
exchange tokens can be based on the following process:5
1. A generates some random data (called the secret) x.

Figure 4. Rivest, Shamir, Tauman ring signature scheme

Ring signatures as referenced by figure 4 are a pretty plain
and straightforward way of a multi-sig application: Given n
entities each with pub/priv keys, (P1 , S1 ), (P2 , S2 ), ..., (Pn , Sn ).
Party i can compute a ring signature σ on a message m, on
input (m, Si , P1 ...Pn ). Anyone can check the validity of a ring
signature given σ, m, and the public keys involved, P1 ...Pn . If a
ring signature is properly computed, it should pass the check.
Compared to this, zk-SNARKs seem outright “magical” at
first glance. You can verify the correctness of computations
without having to execute them and you will not even learn
what was executed – just that it was done correctly. In reality, zk-SNARKs can be dissected into four relatively simple
ingredients:
1.
2.
3.
4.

represent as a polynomial problem
random sample for succinct check
homomorphic encoding / encryption
zero knowledge by checking structure

We will not explain these in full here, but encourage the
reader to visit good introductions and explaining blogs for zkSNARKs[8], [9].
We will not discuss the concrete implementation of both
concepts here, as there are already off-the-shelf implementations on github3 4
3 https://github.com/apuljain/
Linkable-Ring-Signature
4 https://github.com/scipr-lab/libsnark

2. A generates T x1 (the payment) containing an output with
the chain-trade smart contract in it. It allows coin release
either by signing with the two keys (Ak and Bk ) or with
(secret x, Bk ). This transaction is not broadcast. The
chain release script contains hashes, not the actual secrets
themselves.
3. A generates T x2 (the contract), which spends T x1 and
has an output going back to Ak . It has a lock time in the
future and the input has a sequence number of zero, so it
can be replaced. A signs T x2 and sends it to B, who also
signs it and sends it back.
4. A broadcasts T x1 and T x2 . B can now see the coins but
cannot spend them because it does not have an output
going to him, and the tx is not finalized anyway.
5. B performs the same scheme in reverse on the alternative
chain. The lock time for B should be much larger than the
lock time for A. Both sides of the trade are now pending
but incomplete.
6. Since A knows the secret, A can claim his coins immediately. However, A, in the process of claiming his coin,
reveals the secret x to B, who then uses it to finish the
other side of the trade with (x, Bk ).
ACCTs have the disadvantage that both chains need to
implement the ACCT (of course in addition to being capable to
provide smart contracts) in order for this to work.
If Burst was to provide some ACCT with - say - Bitcoin,
the ACCT handling would have to be implemented not only on
5 see

Appendix B for a visualization

The Burst Dymaxion — 6/23

Figure 5. Burst/Qora ACCT prototype

the Burstcoin side, but also in Bitcoin client(s). While not entirely impossible, it is unlikely to get arbitrary cryptocurrencies
development teams to provide that kind of interoperability. If,
on the other hand, the implementation of ACCTs happened in
a situation where the same development team exercises control
over both “chains” in question, then this approach certainly
seems viable.
Burst already does have a prototype ACCT implementation6
with the cryptocurrency Qora - see figure 5.
1.6 Lightning Network
The term “Lightning Network” became widely known in 2016
from a publication by Poon and Dryja[10] in the context of the
Bitcoin scaling debate. In essence, it is an off-chain protocol
running on a P2P network of nodes for making micropayments
of digital currencies. Said nodes form a scale-free network
of bidirectional payment channels without delegating custody
of funds or trust to third parties. Yet, these payment channels
are bound by smart contracts to the underlying blockchain to
ensure enforcability in case of uncooperative participants.
At the basis of this mechanism are so called Hash TimeLocked Contracts (HTLC) implemented as smart contracts on
the blockchain. When opening a payment channel, participants
must commit an amount in a transaction which is registered on
the blockchain. This can be seen a collateral and guarantees
enforcability of transactions (so-called commitments) done offchain in the payment channel. Given their similarity, ACCTs
are probably the origin of the technique now called HTLCs.
As introduced for Bitcoin, this system is conceptually not
an independent overlay network; it is more a deferral of state on
the standard blockchain, as the enforcement is still occurring
on the blockchain itself (albeit deferred to future dates and
transactions).
Because the payment channels are bi-directional between
two parties only, forming a network where n parties can participate in transactions between each other depends on finding
“paths” between two parties that can go through intermediaries.
6 based

on http://ciyam.org/at/at_atomic.html

In a way, the formation of a lightning network relies on transitive properties of separate P2P communications.
The problem with this approach is similar to the problem
of premonetary trade. Achieving transitive pathways for m out
of n network participants becomes increasingly difficult if n
is not much larger than m. The old explanation why money
was invented in the first place holds true for a LN itself: If A
had twenty hens and wanted to exchange them for one pig, he
either had to find someone willing to do exactly that trade, or
two other people - say B and C - where C might have had a
pig wanting two goats and finally B wanting twenty hens and
having two goats. The categories in that example translate to
incompatible monetary volume and time in a LN.
It is possible that operation of a LN is well feasible with
the help of powerful intermediaries/facilitators who command
large financial resources. In this case, however, we can expect
the LN to exhibit a decentral and not a distributed topology compare figures 6 and 8.
1.7 Coloring
In an abstract sense, coloring is a simple tagging technique
used to allow distinction, thus coexistence, of various instances
of a class in a common data context.
In cryptocurrencies, colored coins is a concept that allows
attaching metadata to transactions and by this leveraging the
coins infrastructure for issuing and trading immutable digital
assets that can represent real world value.
Colored coins[11] are a method to track the origin of Burst
coins, so that a certain set of coins can be set aside and conserved, allowing a party to acknowledge them in various ways.
Such coins can be used to represent arbitrary digital tokens,
such as stocks, bonds, smart property and can even represent
real-world objects.
When a coin is "colored", it can be traded on the Burst
network just like any other coin in the system. This allows
BURST to be exchanged for whatever object the colored coin
represents. This concept forms the basis for the Burst Asset
Exchange.

The Burst Dymaxion — 7/23

Figure 6. Decentral (left) vs. distributed topology.

Since 2014 it has been suggested, that various coloured
coin protocols could be of interest to banks and major financial institutions,7 because of its inherent applicability to their
requirements to use self-issued, quasi-private, yet decentral and
trustless transaction channels with desired properties.
Since then various implementations like CoinSpark8 and
MultiChain9 have evolved from the original concept by Rosenfeld.
While our proposed combination of Colored Coins and
tangle-based Lightning Network (which we call colored tangles) is a brand new concept, prototype implementations for
the Bitcoin LN do already exist.10

2. Putting it All Together
As we have seen, all building blocks for our proposal are already
in place, not only as theoretical concepts, but well developed
and even tested in real-world application use. These are solved
problems.
The realization of the Burst Dymaxion therefore seems
more like an engineering rather than a research task, but the
major contribution of this paper is the seamless integration
of said components into a new framework with significant
synergistic gains.

2.1 Dymaxion Tangle vs. IOTA Tangle
While DAGs have been used as part of graph theory for several
decades now and are mathematically well understood today,
their use in cryptocurrencies as generalization of the blockchain
is a novelty.
We are convinced of the advantages tangles bring to questions of scalability and decentral design, but not every aspect
of the current iri (IOTA reference implementation) seems to be
the best possible design choice.[12]
Our biggest concern is the cryptographic hash function used
in IOTA: Curl. The IOTA vulnerability report[13] has shown
already practical signature forgery attacks and while IOTA no
longer uses the Curl hash function to hash transactions as part of
the IOTA signing process, Curl is still used for other purposes
in IOTA.
Similarly disturbing seems the claim of one of the IOTA
founders to have placed that vulnerability into Curl on purpose,
to be able to shut down copycats. Even leaving the ethical
aspect aside - publishing IOTA source under GPL3 license
and allegedly placing a cryptographic vulnerability in its core
hash function - experience shows, that control over backdoors
and vulnerabilities seldom remains in the “right hands”. By
extension, this puts IOTA itself at risk.
It seems more apropriate, to use the iri only as design guidance in some aspects, using standard libraries and standard
hashing algorithms complemented by own peer-reviewed implementation.
Moreover, the biggest difference being the underlying Burst
blockchain allowing Dymaxion tangles to be opened and closed
against a point of reference, as well as the existence of an
arbitray number of logically separated (colored) Dymaxion
tangles compared to just one IOTA tangle. A future IOTA could
very well live within the Dymaxion, maybe even in its native
form.
2.2 Blockchain-Dymaxion Interaction
Figure 7 is the top-level view on the presented concept. The
Burst blockchain acts as a fundamental bookkeeping chain
where opening and closing of the Dymaxion layer is recorded.
Payment processors, banks, exchanges etc. may use ACCTs
(ACTTs really) to open and close payment channels with desired properties (network size, validation reqirements, etc.) and
keep them open for a certain period (TTL) - e.g. one day for
daytrading on Wallstreet.
The tangles work asynchronously with no inherent clock
signal contrary to the 4-minute target time for block generation
in the Burst blockchain. Transaction latency in a Dymaxion
layer is effectively network latency plus validation latency
ttx = tnl + tvl

7 https://is.gd/vz3oiN
8 http://coinspark.org/developers/
9 https:/www.multichain.com/
10 https://is.gd/7RcPqf

(1)

with network latency effectively being the packet time between
two peers as sum of network-hop latencies, often measured
in milliseconds, and validation time being PoW, PoC or PoS
runtime on the node - measured in seconds.

The Burst Dymaxion — 8/23

Figure 7. Dymaxion Top-Level view: set of colored tangles over the Burst blockchain. Each tangle representing an independent

Lightning Network for P2P transaction channels. Block 92 is magnified to show inner structure containing transactions some of
which are opening and closing tangle LNs.
With the average block time on the Burst blockchain being
said 240 seconds, this can lead to a situation of potentially
short-lived tangles that can be opened and closed intra-block
i.e. within one and the same block on the Burst blockchain (see
green tangle). The application for this could be a voting where
some hundred or a thousand globally distributed voters would
have to give their vote within a short period.
Some tangles might live for a day or longer and bear the
transactional load of a financial institute or an exchange and
only at the end of the day or the respective period close and
record that state in the blockchain.
As mentioned in section 1.5, ACCT stands for Atomic Cross
Chain Transaction. We will use a slightly modified ACTT for Atomic Chain-Tangle Transaction from now on. Of course,
figure 7 is a very simplified view if you consider that basically every block pictured potentially could - without any Burst
blockchain scaling CIP - have up to 255 incoming or outgoing
ACTTs. We see only three ACTTs for block 92, one incoming
ACTT for blocks 90 and 95 and one outgoing for block 91
and even this simplification already suggests a multiple of the
traditional blockchain-only transaction capacity.
We will discuss the implementation details (opening, closing, enforcing) in section 3.
2.3 Using Nodes P2P for ad-hoc DLs
Each cryptocurrency network consists of nodes and each of
these nodes has contact to other nodes which from its perspec-

tive are called peers. This infrastructure is already in place
for Burst and there is a communication protocol between these
nodes to ensure transactions are propagated, blocks are downloaded for new or outdated nodes (blockchain syncing) etc. - see
https://burstwiki.org/wiki/The_Burst_API
Similar to the Lightning Network Daemon (lnd11 ), we implement a Burst Dymaxion Daemon (bdd) that can - but doesn’t
need to be - an integral part of the Burst wallet12 .
In any case, the bdd would be active on nodes that do
participate in specific colored tangle networks. The decision
whether to participate or not, would be defined on dynamic node
capabilities as defined in the respective CIP - see appendix C.
One particular detail of the DL network infrastructure acquisition - node discovery - is presented in the next section (see
3.1). A tangle-based network is made for a high degree of decentralization and transaction performance, but has a problem
upon startup if there is not a network of sufficient size in place.
The Burst Dymaxion solves this problem by effectively
providing the equivalent of a cloud service for nodes. Figure 8
shows the Burstcoin core network - running the PoC blockchain
protocol. This base network has been running for over 3 years
now and will always form a source of nodes potentially available upon DL initiation.
11 https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd
12 BRS

- Burst Reference Software:
PoC-Consortium/burstcoin

https://github.com/

The Burst Dymaxion — 9/23

Figure 8. Burst cryptocurrency core network of nodes as of December 22nd. Node discovery by recursive descent.

2.4 Dymaxion Anonymity
Both ring signatures as well as zk-SNARKs are part of the
DL implementation and upon opening a DL can be chosen
- optionally - to conceal transactions that do happen within
that specific DL. This has consequences for the respective DL
record (see section 3.3 as well as for monetary supply on the
DL.
For various reasons, there are no plans to bring RS or zkSNARK anonymity on-chain. Due to the cutting edge nature of
ZK-Snarks, in our opinion there is not enough peer-review of
the underlying cryptography to make it mandatory or part of the
base chain. Participants of a DL who desire anonymity can limit
the value-at-stake by providing zero collateral. An application
scenario would be dissidents that had to carry only clearing
cost for on-chain operations and use the DL for encrypted
communication, voting or similar.
We believe a global payment system should be agnostic of
any moral, legal, monetary or social requirements as these are
most often not global in nature. That’s why groups wanting to
use the DL for anonymous value-transfer activities can do so.
Enabling the anonymity features of a DL is supposed to be the
result of a cost-benefit consideration.
One such potential cost to anonymous DL mode of operation comes from the fact that:
In Zcash, where there is no “certain scarcity” and
if god forbid, Zcash had a bug that allowed for people to generate more Zcash coins than the intended
money supply, then it is possible that nobody could

tell. If it were a severe bug, potentially somebody
could inflate the money supply by hundreds of millions of dollars, making a profit while lowering the
price of Zcash for speculators. There are several
examples of major cryptocurrency bugs that have
led to a massive misallocation of the quantity of
cryptocurrency that should have been in circulation.13
Contrary to this, even in the worst case of a bug in the
anonymity functions, due to the TTL of a DL any possible
damage is contained and limited to the collaterals used when
forming the DL. Even if a “DL goes wrong”, this has no effect
on other past, present or future DLs and certainly not on the
base chain.
While zk-SNARKs and the Pinocchio protocol[14] do allow
for concealment of even the value being transferred, said problem with an uncontrolled supply of tokens may not be worth
the risk.
Ring Signatures provide a very nice alternative for complementary scenarios with anonymity requirements. There is
no risk of uncontrolled supply and in case the DL has a larger
number of members RS can guarantee a sufficient level of
anonymity with good transaction performance levels.
While anonymity on-tangle can be covered for a large parameter space of requirements, on-chain anonymity is somewhat weak by itself. Many addresses are re-used and even
13 http://zcoin.io/zcoin-and-zcash/

The Burst Dymaxion — 10/23

named. Their connection to on-tangle transactions (via collaterals) can prevent any anonymization effort on-tangle.
Fortunately there are two mechanisms to improve on-chain
anonymity. The somewhat crude approach is a mixing service, that theoretically can provide sufficient concealment of
source and target payment streams, but from a cryptographic
point of view it is more an obfuscation functionality than real
anonymization.
The other mechanism for on-chain anonymity is a littleknown feature of CIYAM AT: anonymous ACCTs.
One might think, that anonymous ACCTs are not possible,
because the AT itself has no secrets, but with slight changes to
the process it can be altered to allow just that.
Normally an ACCT would involve putting the same "hash"
into two ATs (each residing on a different blockchain, or in our
case chain and tangle) and then sending the secret to unlock
both in order to make the transaction take place - see appendix
B.
It turns out, there is no need for the secret to be “identical”
- so the on-chain AT would store the hash
e47823401ae24e6885de22e1c427c9df\
e477ce5e1095f3c2bf4dcbc35f2c7ee0
while the AT on-tangle could store
0d5a2b016e90b3db4d42d5a4c420f75b\
b131bb4465bdfebb8037daadf0174a54
Both hashes seem completely unrelated, and to some observer they are, yet the ATs do have the knowledge that one
is a SHA256 of “Burst123”, while the other is the SHA256
of “Tangle123”. (this is of course a trivial example of how to
do this - the in-production version does use a more elaborated
callenge-response process than just using fixed strings with
some concatenated id).
Assuming we will have numerous ATs operating across numerous blockchain-tangle DLs all doing transfers at around the
same time it is pretty clear that any observer aiming for “total
awareness” would have to record the total global sum of transactions the Dymaxion is performing. It seems highly unlikely
for this to succeed when observing a “globally decentralized
transaction machine”.

3. Implementation Details
The life cycle of a Dymaxion Layer consists of the following
steps
1. Initiation
(a) Initiator set up
(b) Creating the DL (Node Discovery, AT)
(c) Subscribe Phase
2. Operation
3. Closing
(a) Node DL shutdown broadcast
(b) Clearing

3.1 Opening a DL
Opening a Dymaxion Layer (DL), is the main operation for
a tangle to spring into existence. While more complex, the
operation is conceptually very similar to an ACCT, creating an
asset or the BTC Lightning Network initiation process.
DL Initiation

A Tangle Initiator creates an on-chain ACTT (which is effectively a HTLC) with several tangle parameters including, but
not limited to:
Consensus Type PoC, PoW and PoS will be supported. PoC
is the preferred way for full nodes with attached storage
(“Plots”), PoW and PoS available for various application scenarios, where small tangle nodes (IoT) possibly
cannot perform PoC or some even PoW.
Time-To-Live (TTL) Global Time-Lock for the tangle. A
point in the future where the tangle will fold. Maximum TTL could be decades, but we propose in a first
release a max. TTL of 217 blocks on the Burst blockchain
(ca. 1 year). Must be bigger than the Subscribe-Time.
Subscribe-Time Deadline for subscribers to sign their collaterals on-tangle. Maximum 360 blocks (ca. 24h).
Collateral Collateral in BURST by the tangle initiator. This
collateral is used as backing for whatever Units (see below) the initiator issues. The collateral can be as low as
0, but then any currency, asset, bonds, futures, shares
or whatever the issued Units represent must be backed
by other means (promises - similar to current Burst Asset exchange) and might not have as much trust as a
collateral-backed issuance. The collateral is blocked and
unspendable for the issuer until the tangle folds. Technically, the collateral is defined by the BURST address and
it’s UTXo which the initiator names and signs.
Features A DL can be created with more parameters defining its behavior. The most significant probably being
anonymous transactions and their type, where the participants (initiator and subscribers) can perform transactions
using ring signatures or zk-SNARKs (see 1.4). In this
case, records of the tangle transactions (see 3.3) can be
kept, but do not contain any information to make the
participants of the tangle identifiable.
Units Number and types of units issued, can be applied e.g.
for different types of stocks like common, preferred for
an IPO issuance. Other than that each type of Unit can
be a 64bit number of Quants.
Subscribers Optional list of addresses who are subscribers to
the tangle - the participants. This is a pull operation, that
can happen without interaction of the subscriber himself.
It has no effect on the availability of the funds on these
particular addresses. All are spendable or can receive
more BURST. Until the subscriber himself does not sign

The Burst Dymaxion — 11/23

his participation on-tangle, the particular address is still
detached from the tangle. If this parameter is given, we
speak of a private DL else it is a public DL - open to
everybody, in which case tx fees for clearing of balances
upon folding are paid by the subscribers themself.
Cost Creating a tangle implies a minimum transaction fee,
which is independent of the collateral. It consists of a
fixed and a variable part. The fixed part being a constant
fee going to the miners in the block where the tangle
opening was recorded .The variable part depends on the
number of subscribers - see equation 2 - and is locked to
a time until the tangle folds. This fee is intended to cover
the tx cost for clearing operations for the participants.
Fvar = Nsubscribers ∗ Fordinary−payment

(2)

Although the on-chain accounts are protected from any
form of hijacking - simply being referenced by the tangle initiator has no effect - an initiator has also no motivation to reference
an arbitrary number of on-chain accounts, as this will raise the
tangle opening fee. Unspent tx fee (reserved for a subscriber
who never signed on-tangle) is forfeited for the tangle initiator
and goes to the miners of the Burst blockchain block where the
folding of the tangle is recorded.
The tangle initiator is technically just the first subscriber to
the tangle, therefore his collateral is defined the same way as
for all subsequent subscribers: by providing a signature for the
respective Burst address with X funds at the time of signing.
By successfully recording the tangle to the Burst blockchain,
it will get a unique ID - its “color” - and by definition all units
on this colored tangle are limited to this context. As of now,
there is no inter-tangle transaction possible, all value transfer
desired to happen between two different colored tangles has to
go over the Burst blockchain as intermediary.
Node discovery

Figure 9 shows the step immediately following the DL initiation: node discovery. In this step, a DL initiation requirement is
broadcast to the peers of the node that got the tangle initiation
requirement (not necessarily the node of the tangle initiator).
The peers record this requirement, broadcast it to their
peers and check the DL parameters against their own capability
configuration (see C) and in case the node’s configuration does
allow for handling the requested DL, the node becomes part of
the DL network.
In section 5.1 we discuss the latency and throughput benchmarks for tangle initiation under various connectivity scenarios
and geographic situation.
DL Subscription

Within the Subscribe Time as defined by the tangle initiator,
each subscriber must sign his address on-tangle to become
participant of the newly formed DL. If a list of subscribers has
been given, the subscriber must be part of that list (private DL)
and the respective tangle can be seen as an invite-only. If no
such list has been given, the DL is open to everyone with an
address on the Burst blockchain.

Figure 9. Parallel node discovery for 3 colored tangles (DL

network infrastructure acquisition): Peer lookup, check against
node capabilities.
While there are defined maximum values for TTL and subscribe time, there is no minimum time given, except the constraint
tttl > tst

(3)

must be met. This allows for short lived dymaxion layers that
can be opened and closed within one block and its approx. 240
seconds life time. Naturally these kind of short-lived DLs are
probably more suited for machine2machine IoT transactions
instead.
3.2 A Transaction within a DL
For consistency reasons, to describe a transaction process on the
DL, we would like to use parts of the IOTA terminology: sites
are transactions represented on the tangle graph. The network
is composed of nodes which issue and validate transactions.
As in IOTA, the main idea of the tangle is the following: to
issue a transaction, nodes must work to approve other transactions. Therefore, nodes that issue a transaction are contributing
to the network’s security.
So the price for a transaction on-tangle is not named in fees,
but in validation work done for other transactions. IOTA uses
some kind of “low-effort PoW” to validate a transaction. This
design choice makes sense, if you target IoT devices and lots
of them. The problem is, it works only with sufficient security
if such a large scale tangle network is already in place.
The Burst Dymaxion implementation will support all three
types of consensus algorithms, but we will start off with just
PoC until the network has reached sufficient size and more
experience from network operation is gained.
The on-tangle PoC validation will be quite similar to BURST
mining and also using regular PoC2 plot files, although the re-

The Burst Dymaxion — 12/23

quirements for the plot size of a node will be much lower - in
the order of 1-5 GB plot size. The node will validate transactions also by finding deadlines to the tx hash of the transaction
to validate.
In case it can’t find a deadline below a certain threshold, the
validation has failed and the node can’t validate that particular
transaction.
If a node manages to validate two transactions this way, it
can use its solution to send a transaction itself and the cycle
repeats (with another set of on-tangle nodes).
Because this type of validation is verifiable (nodes can
verify the PoC validation solution found by other nodes), there
is no need for a central entity to issue any specific transactions
as this is currently the case with the IOTA coordinator.
Moreover, there is no gain for nodes to amass more PoC
space for validation, as it will not give them more “validation
power”. The PoC validation is a minimum-threshold satisfiability problem, which is either met or not. Should a miner
with several hundred TB of PoC2 plots decide to use these for
on-tangle tx validation (which we assume will be more the rule
than the exception), it will not give him any more power than a
regular 1-5 GB node has, as the tx validation PoC2 search is a
1st fit.
3.3 Closing a DL
When a Dymaxion layer is closed, we speak of the tangle
folding. This is because upon initiation of closing the layer,
clearing of all participants’ (initiator and subscribers) balances
happens and after the final balances are in the Burst blockchain
- as ordinary payment transactions with the respective fee from
the tangle setup cost - the whole structure of the tangle is
scrapped. As of now, there are two possible conditions when a
tangle will fold:
• the tangle TTL has expired
• there are no subscribers (except initiator) to the tangle
after the subscribe-time
The first condition is defined by the tangle intiator when
creating the dymaxion layer, whereas the second condition is defined by the subscribers who either do not show up (subscribe)
on the tangle at all, or who unsubscribe.
Unsubscribing from a tangle does not free up the subscribers funds on-chain or on-tangle. These still remain locked
until the tangle folds.
Tangle records

If a tangle participant chooses to keep the records, he is free to
do so, but these are of no relevance to the funds that are now
on the Burst blockchain.
Some participants, most often the initiator if it’s a financial
institution, are required by law to keep these records and they
can do so, but these records have no impact on blockchain size.
On the other hand, the Burst blockchain can serve as warrant of validity of these privately kept records, as the tangle
entry and exit points are stored. The final tangle state is being

recorded with its hash value so forging the records, although
they may have been archived by a single entity only, is considered impossible. This attribute of immutability is an important
legal requirement in archiving financial documentation.
Even if all tangle participants choose or are required to keep
the tangle records (similar to bank statements), the storage is
in their responsibility and thus only of their local interest. The
blockchain is free to just record openings and closings of the
tangles working above it and sustaining the high-volume transactional load. Tangle storage is left completely to the private
domain only to those who have interest keeping the records, yet
these records’ immutability is ensured by the decentral Burst
blockchain.
3.4 Blockchain Enforcing
Security of off-chain transactions is enforced by blockchain
smart-contracts without creating an on-blockchain transaction
for individual payments.
The blockchain serves the function of an arbiter, so it is
possible to conduct transactions off-blockchain without limitations. Transactions can be made off-chain with confidence of
on-blockchain enforceability and deterministic results.
Enforcing the transfer of collaterals after folding of the tangle does not require cooperation from any counterparty. Clearing operations are solely on the ACTT running both on-chain
as well as on-tangle.
While subscribed parties can choose to not participate in
any on-tangle transactions, their on-chain collaterals remain
frozen until the tangle is folded.

4. Security Considerations
4.1 Collusive Nodes Attack
In a tangle network a possible attack scenario is a set of collusive nodes causing either double spends ot modifying transactions along the graph while validating them for each other and
causing a so called parasite chain - see [1], pg. 20.
The IOTA paper introduces a family of Markov Chain
Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithms to counter the problems of
bad tip selection from collusive attackers.
The Dymaxion implementation uses instead a Byzantine
Consensus Algorithm. From a mathematical model point of
view, attackers in the network can be considered “faults” in
a distributed computing protocol. Byzantine fault tolerance
(BFT) is achieved if the non-malicious nodes have a majority
agreement on their strategy like handling or default values for
missing or corrupted messages.
We use the BFT-SMaRt14 - a Byzantine fault-tolerant state
machine replication library to build dependable protocols. Given
f as the number of faulty nodes, the total number of nodes
needs to be 3 f − 1 for a correct operation of the transaction
propagation on the tangle (2 f − 1 honest nodes).
This puts an upper boundary for the maximum tolerable
portion of malevolent nodes at almost 33%. If there are more
14 https://bft-smart.github.io/library/

The Burst Dymaxion — 13/23

than 1/3rd malevolent nodes, trustable transaction validation
on-tangle is not possible without further security precautions.
While we believe that an attack with such a high number
of colluding nodes is infeasible for large global networks, this
theoretical limit also exists for the IOTA network as a whole,
no matter the tip selection algorithm used.
Contrary to this, a Dymaxion layer has additional security
measures in place. As described in section 3.1, the node discovery run picks potentially from the total set of nodes in the Burst
network a subset suitable and available for the initiated colored
tangle. Given N as the total number of nodes in the Burstcoin
network, and T as the number of available and suitable nodes
for the Dymaxion layer tangle, where T ⊂ N (T is proper subset of N), collusive nodes would have to take up to 33% of the
whole Burst network N and not only a subset T .
We also would like to point out, that all members of set
N are constantly vetted as part of the Burst network and once
misbehaving are blacklisted by other nodes in the network,
which effectively bars them from being chosen into set T .
Even if a tangle initiator would work in collusion with such
a network, the tangle initiation parameters cannot be set in a
way that would favor the preferred choice of malicious nodes
and by this lure the tangle subscribers into a trap to steal their
collaterals.
4.2 Spamming and DoS Scenarios
Transactions on-tangle are free from fees. If they were truly
zero-cost transactions, there would be nothing at stake for some
attacker who would like to issue a huge amount of transactions
for some own benefit (spamming) or to simply congest the
network and hinder other transactions to be validated (DoS). In
the worst case, the attacker could amass a processing power that
would allow him to execute a whole class of majority attacks
with dire consequences to the network as such.
IOTA currently counters this problem by the use of a socalled Coordinator - a specific node run by the IOTA foundation
to make specific transactions called Milestones - to stabilize the
network until it has reached a size that would make majority
attacks infeasible.
The Burst Dymaxion design starts at a much better initial
situation. Instead of a centralized entity to rely on, the underlying Burst network and the blockchain form already points
of reference upon entry and exit of a tangle. Moreover, nodes
propagating on-tangle transactions are required to perform a
PoC for tx validation.
PoS and PoW consensus algorithms for on-tangle transactions will be added as DLs will run on devices not capable to
perform a PoC consensus (or are defined for a low resource
requirement operation see C), but the initial mode of operation
will allow for the network to grow in a decentralized manner
without any entity to exercise central control over any aspect of
it.
As mentioned in section 4.1, nodes in the Burst network
are vetted and blacklisted when misbehaving (e.g. spamming)
already. This is actually a functionality that has been added and

battle-tested in the wake of the spamming attacks that occured
in July 2017.

5. Results and Discussion
5.1 Prototype Performance
We performed various benchmarks with prototypes for DL
initiation consisting of node discovery latency timings, internode communication throughput and various cost metrics.
The benchmarks are done with a scripted prototype and are
preliminary. As such they can be expected to improve, but as
you can clearly see from the numbers, perfomance is good even
in the worst case scenario with many adverse effects coming
into play.
Latency

Figure 10. Node discovery at reference point
(wallet.burst.cryptoguru.org)

Figure 10 shows node discovery latency from our point
of reference, the PoCC online wallet, hosted as some german
ISP and representing currently the best case scenario for the
prototype. As you can see, the maximum response time from
a peer answering (a potential tangle node) is below 0.8s with
the majority of peers having answered within 0.1s. This can be
considered the best case scenario, where a broadcasting node
with a good connectivity is also in a region of dense Burst nodes
presence.
For comparison, figure 10 shows discovery latencies from
a node with regular internet connectivity (cable) for a home
network, situated near a region with good Burst nodes coverage,
but no nodes in the own country yet. This can be considered
the standard situation in areas where the Burst network starts to
proliferate. The PoCC network observer gives a good overview
of areas with dense Burst nodes presence and their neighboring
regions.
Even in this case, almost half of the answering peers remain
under 0.1s with the slowest peer answering with a latency of

The Burst Dymaxion — 14/23

Figure 12. Node discovery from a Burst node situated in
Tokyo - ISP network

Figure 11. Node discovery from a Burst node situated in

Prague - home network
around 800ms. Even for the very specific case of a flash tangle to be formed and folded within one Burst block (ca. 240
seconds) this would leave over
nv = (240 − ti − t f )/tavg

(4)

validation steps within the tangle for transactions. ti being the
tangle initation time, t f the tangle folding time, tavg being the
median response time per node, 0.085228s in the “Prague” case.
Depending on the width of the tangle w = nn /2, this allows for
at least
nv ∗ w

(5)

on-tangle transactions until folding the tangle potentially in the
same block. (238/0.085228) ∗ 10 = 27925 transactions in this
case.
So even some pathologically small tangle consisting of only
20 nodes, could perform intra-block almost 28k transactions in
a 240s time window (over 10 million tx per day). This is the
green tangle depicted in figure 7.
While this number isn’t even the best possible case, let’s
look at some worst case scenarios. Tangle initiation, folding
and operation from a region far away from dense Burst nodes
presence. Once Burst nodes proliferate to form a truly global
and omnipresent network, such a situation may not even exist,
but it is always good to have a limn→∞ xn estimate.
Figure 12 shows the situation for a node far away from
other Burst nodes. We can see a maximum of 1094ms latency
with the median being at 582ms. In this case our formulas 4
and 5 resolve to roughly (237/0.582) ∗ 10 = 4072 transactions
during a regular Burst block time (1.46 million tx per day).15
The most exiled node the PoCC could benchmark is situated in Sydney, Australia. Measured latencies from this node
15 theoretically

237.812 seconds, but we are rounding to account for further
processing delays

Figure 13. Node discovery from a Burst node situated in

Sydney - ISP network

with a tangle formed in Europe are shown in figure 13. The
maximum latency is 1147ms, the median is 631ms which results to (237/0.631) ∗ 10 = 3756 transactions during a single
Burst block time (1.35 million tx per day).
Throughput

Besides latency, we measured throughput for the peer initiated
to form a DL. Table 1 shows the results for the prototype implementation. The results are representative, but measuring
throughput for long-distance node-node communication is naturally highly volatile, as time of day, global network load or
regional ISP activity can have an influence.
“One-off” measurements handle one tx validation (connect,
validate) then exit, so we can rule out any network caching
effects, although we can assume for a long-running tangle
better network throughput performance as peer connections
will be in router caches.
The high performance between “Sydney” and “Tokyo” nodes
is probably due to the fact that these - while geographically

The Burst Dymaxion — 15/23

min \ max

Germany

Prague

Tokyo

Sydney

Germany
Prague
Tokyo
Sydney

–
11.70
81.80
52.40

22.30
–
3.26
2.63

98.70
3.82
–
150.00

68.60
3.24
152.00
–

Table 1. one-off node-node connection throughput in Mbit/s

distributed - are operated by the same ISP and evidently have a
dedicated connectivity.
The poor connectivity between the “Prague” node and the
two “Sydney” and “Tokyo” nodes suggests that it is probably
not a good idea to initiate a tangle from your home network. In
fact, we assume tangle initiation will be done by large corporations or institutions with dedicated hardware and excellent
connectivity.
Still, let’s examine what throughput-limited performance
we could expect if a tangle was to be formed between geographically distributed nodes such as in this case. The payload for an
ordinary non-anonymous transaction is roughly 200byte. An
anonymous ring signature takes up to 3 kB, while zk-SNARK
tx is roughly 2kB.
Even in our worst-case scenario (Prague-Sydney), we can
see that throughput is not a limiting factor. Theoretically, even
a 2.63 Mbit/s throughput (336.64 kB/s) could allow for
• 1683 tx/s ordinary payments
• 168 tx/s RS-anonymous transactions
• 112 tx/s zk-SNARK-anonymous transactions
However, compared to the latency-limited 3756 tx per Burst
block time - giving us “only” 15 tx/s for a pathologically small
and excessively relocated tangle, throughput limits are not the
issue.
5.2 Adoption Process
Burst has been around since 2014, yet it is still small enough to
allow for significant improvements without a long and paralyzing scaling debate. It is natural if cryptocurrencies with large
market capitalization have to be very conservative with their
changes to the code base given the amounts at stake.
While Burst is more flexible in this aspect, as a cryptocurrency there are certain principles development must adhere to.
Changes to the code base must have the approval of the majority of users, which in this case are wallet/node operators (not
miners). Blindly forking the coin can result in community split
and is undesireable in general.
Establishing The Burst Dymaxion will be an incremental
process consisting of the implementation of several Burst CIPs
(see section C - partially C). Each of these steps will carefully
adhere to a well defined and transparent process with evident
benefits resulting from its adoption.
Because the Burst Dymaxion is a layer on top of the Burst
blockchain, virtually all essential components of Burst will remain unchanged and if there is a change, backward-compatibility

is always considered the premier option (e.g. PoC2 CIP in section C)
If more rigorous changes are required with significant consequences (hard-forking, re-plotting), the cost-benefit evaluation
must weigh significantly in favor to the benefit aspect.
It is evident, the Dymaxion as whole represents the most
significant update to the Burst cryptocurrency. The claim is to
provide a cryptocurrency capable of sustaining the total global
load of non-cash transactions. To the best of our knowledge
any Burst stakeholder section should root for this to happen.
In general, each change should undergo the CIP workflow
(see also C). Each feature would have two thresholds that need
to be met in order for it to become active: 1) an activation block
height, which should be set far enough in the future, so every
node operator has enough time to prepare for it, and 2) a defined
percentage of signalling nodes to support this feature, which
would by definition be Burst nodes capable of the feature in
question.

Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank many members of the cryptographic community for their support and valuable input. Anton
Yip provided great insight into Burst CIYAM ATs and their
applicability to ACCTs. Burstcoin community member Quibus
took the time for a forensic dilligence of the Burst plotting and
mining process. Also, his proposal of a backward-compatible
and un-gameable PoC2 can be considered a milestone for Burst.
Tom Créance (@Gadrah) helped with the visual representation
of some figures. Sergey Blagodarenko for providing insight
and code on the PoC1 gameability problem. We also would
like to express our gratitude to the numerous authors of Bitcoin,
IOTA, Monero and ZCash. Without the giants who kindly let
us stand on their shoulders, we would not have had the building
blocks necessary for the Burst Dymaxion.

The Burst Dymaxion — 16/23

Appendices
A SpaceMint Paper Errata
SpaceMint: A Cryptocurrency Based on Proofs of Space[15]
is a paper about a proposed cryptocurrency named SpaceMint
which is based on a ”proof of space” concept - some of the
authors presented in another paper.[16]
In section 2 "Related Work", the authors make some claims
about Burstcoin as it is the only coin implementing a Proof-ofCapacity consensus - somewhat related to the Proof-of-Space
described in the paper. In particular they make 3 claims about
Burst weaknesses:

SHABAL256 operations have to be performed, as each SHABAL256 delivers a 32byte (256bit) hash value only.
Because the amount of input data that is being given to the
SHABAL256 is capped at 4096 bytes, it’s also not " 8 million
256bit blocks" that are being hashed in total to get all scoops in
a nonce, but exactly 33292288 bytes, therefore a total 1040384
of 256bit blocks. So roughly 18 th of the claimed value in the
SpaceMint paper.

As mentioned in the previous
paragraph, many estimates of the authors are based on the
insufficient information about how Burstcoin works at the time
available to them. This results in certain follow-up errors that
• By requiring the examination of a constant fraction (0.24%) skew the computations. E.g. there are 8192 hashes computed
of reserved disk space, Burst is - according to the authors
and not 4097. So for the attack as described by the authors,
- inefficient compared to SpaceMint which requires only
there is actually only 1/8192th of the total plot space needed
a logarithmically proportional amount of examination.
(the final 32 bytes to perform the XOR)[4].
Now with the current PoC used with Burstcoin, there indeed
• Verification is problematic in Burstcoin, because “a miner
are time-memory tradeoffs possible, roughly as the authors
has to verify 8 million blocks to verify another miners
describe. The Burstcoin developers have been aware of this
claim”.
possibility to use less Capacity and invest more Work for a
• Burstcoin being susceptible to time-memory tradeoffs, specific range of Scoops (at this moment the highest 64 Scoops
4096 - 4032 are prone to this attack in a somewhat viable way).
thus allowing miners to mine using PoW and using just a
This attack on PoC mining fairness was possible in theory,
small fraction of space to be at the same rate as “honest
but
not feasible economically, because the PoW required for
miners”.
this mode of operation consumed far more energy than a PoC
We would like to clarify and refute some of these claims, mining style. However recent advancements in hardware and
because they seem to have originated in the SpaceMint authors’ GPU performance do show, that economical feasibility is just a
matter of time.
incomplete understanding of the Burstcoin PoC and even some
Therefore this situation must be addressed. A PoC2 CIP
simple arithmetic mistakes.
(see C) is underway to ensure the Burstcoin blockchain is not
Ad “inefficient examination” It is correct, that Burstcoin
gameable in any way - not even with the advent of any theoretirequires per round - each block every 240 seconds - 1/4096th of
cal SHABAL256 ASIC devices postulated by the SpaceMint
the space reserved on disk to examine16 . The authors also point
authors.
out correctly this being 0.024%. Unfortunately in their model
Summary Burst is neither inefficient in plot examination durcomparison with SpaceMint, using a 1TB mining space, they
ing the mining process, nor is the load put on a verifier “too
transform this 0.024% into 24 gigabyte of data to be examined
high”. We agree that there is a small theoretical possibility
for Burst, while SpaceMint allegedly requires only 24 megabyte
for “time-memory tradeoffs”, but as of this moment its security
to be examined.
impact is low. Burst will undergo a series of upgrades and this
Due to lack of availability we were not able to verify the
claimed requirements for SpaceMint, but 0.024% of 1TB cor- issue will be addressed by a PoC2 CIP (see section C).
We would also like to add that reducing mining and verificarectly translates into 240 megabyte, thus a factor of 100 lower
than the authors’ wrong comparison value. We therefore be- tion effort is not necessarily the ultimate goal. The SpaceMint
authors are aware of so called Nothing-at-stake problems:
lieve, that the claim of Burst inefficiency merely exists due to
this error in the SpaceMint paper.
When replacing PoW with a different type of proof
Ad “problematic verification” The authors avow that their
that is computationally easy to generate (such as
assessment of the Burst plotting and mining process is only
PoSpace), a series of problems arise which are
their best guess, based on the - admittedly - sparse and informal
collectively known as nothing-at-stake problems.
specification at the time of writing the paper. They base their
Intuitively, because mining is cheap, miners can
claims mainly on the old, and even at the time of its publication
(1) mine on multiple chains, and (2) try multiple
17
not exact Mining/Plotting diagram.
blocks per chain, at very little additional cost. (3)
The biggest deviation from the actual situation results from
These two problems potentially allow for doublethe fact, that in order to compute one scoop (64 bytes), two
spending attacks and slow down consensus.
16 a

so called Scoop
also https://is.gd/bwPjCb

17 See

Ad “time-memory tradeoffs”

We believe the Burst mining process is a premier example

The Burst Dymaxion — 17/23

Figure 14. Proof-of-Capacity 2.0: backward-compatible plots with scoops consisting of interleaved SHABAL256 hashes.

Preventing time-memory tradeoff for high-range scoops.
of an equilibrium between energy-efficiency and nothing-atstake problem prevention.

Figure 17. Burst/Qora ACCT step 3: Alice sends after

examining the AT from Bob, the key to the Qora AT.

• Alice (the Initiator) wants to trade Burst for Qora.
Figure 15. Burst/Qora ACCT step 1: Alice deploys an ACCT

AT on Burst that will contain the responder’s address, quantity,
password and expiration time. Two hashes are made of the
password: key and lock

Figure 16. Burst/Qora ACCT step 2: Upon examining Alices
AT, Bob deploys an ACCT AT on Qora with the initiator’s
address, quantity, lock sent from Alice and expiration time
(less than than what Alice set).

B The Burst/Qora ACCT Process
The general process of an ACCT is described in section 1.5.
For the concrete Burst/Qora realization, which to the best of
our knowledge was the 1st ACCT ever realized, please see the
depicted reference below.

• Bob (the Responder) wants to trade Qora for Burst.
Now there are only 4 steps necessary to be provided by the
AT mechanism running on both the Burst and the Qora chains see figure 15 to 18. The communication between Initiator and
Responder, like sending the details of the generated ATs and
INitiator to Resipient key in case everything went well is of
course done off-chain and the mode of operation depends on
what communication channels are established (website, phone,
face to face,...).
C Burstcoin CIPs
Burstcoin Capability Improvement Proposals18 establish a process, defined by the Burst community, similar to BIPs19 (Bitcoin Improvement Proposals) and EIPs20 (Ethereum).
CIPs (short for "Capability Improvement Proposal" or even
"Coin Improvement Proposal") are meant to advance further
development of Burstcoin and describe proposed standards for
the Burstcoin platform, including core protocol specifications,
client APIs, nomenclature and contract standards.
18 https://burstwiki.org/wiki/CIP
19 https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bitcoin_Improvement_
Proposals
20 https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs

The Burst Dymaxion — 18/23

Figure 18. Burst/Qora ACCT step 4: The Qora AT sends the
Amount to Alice’s address and reveals the key to Bob for the
Burst AT. Bob sends the key to the Burst AT and receives the
payment.

What’s not covered by CIPs are changes or improvements
to the coin that can be done without any change to the protocol
or API, such as UI or usability improvements. Improved walletUI or initializing a Burst address with a public key without an
outgoing transaction fall into that category.

Figure 19. PoC1 time-memory tradeoff PoW miner speed.
Y-axis shows nonces/minute on 1 CPU core, X-axis the nonce
number. source: Sergey Blagodarenko

PoC2

The “time-memory tradeoffs” mentioned in the SpaceMint paper are real and show a weakness of the PoC (henceforth PoC1)
consensus used in Burst. A proof-of-concept implementation
exists (see figure 19) - improving its speed is only an engineering task. While they currently do not represent a fatal threat to
Burstcoin (one can assume around 2% of all mining capacity
going to dishonest miners), it is good practice for a cryptocurrency, as well as a sign of responsible development, to address
such issues in a timely manner. Moreover a Burst blockchain
being the backbone of many high-volume payment channels
must address security issues even if they haven’t yet crossed
the threshold to practical applicability.
Therefore several Burst core developers discussed ways to
address this problem in a way that would not only fix the issue,
but also do so with minimum impact to the current stakeholders,
in this specific case miners who are vested with a large capacity
of plots.
The PoC2 proposal is a minimally invasive way to achieve
time-memory tradeoff resistance, while keeping the currently
used plots functional. Figure 14 shows the concept of hash
interleaving to re-shuffle SHABAL256 hashes in scoops in a
way so that each scoop represents an equal amount of hashing
effort.
Software used for the mining process can operate on both
PoC1 as well as PoC2 format, where PoC1 requires twice the
reads compared to PoC2 and works on both optimized as well
as unoptimized PoC1 plots.
For better PoC2 performance a PoC1 → PoC2 converter
will be offered.

As can be seen in figure 20, PoC1 optimized plots provide
significant advantages compared to unoptimized plots. The
number of seeks of a unoptimized PoC1 plot is basically ntimes the number of nonces in that plot, which can be in the
millions.
Compared to this, the difference between seek times of
a PoC1 plot interpreted as a PoC2 (unoptimized PoC2) and
“native” PoC2 is merely a factor of 2, as for each PoC2 scoop,
two PoC1 scoops have to be read (consisting of the two 32-byte
SHABAL256 hashes).
This factor 2 applies to both unoptimized as well as optimized PoC1 plots.
Burst Units Nomenclature

Burst is divisible, similar to many other cryptocurrencies, into
100 million parts. Up to now, BURST had an equivalent value
in the low cent range, so nomenclature of fractions of BURST
seemed not important.
Similar to the nomenclature of Bitcoin units21 we propose
a simple naming scheme for the fractions of BURST - see table
2.
While the canonical SI-names milliBURST (mBURST) and
microBURST (µBURST, or uBURST) are probably best used
in technical documentation and protocol specifications, the
more intuitive names like Burst-cent (BC → “Bessie”) instead
1
of centi-BURST or 1000
th of this (MilliBessie → “Maybel”)
can be used for human2human communication.
We denote the smallest unit of BURST as “Planck”.
21 https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Units

The Burst Dymaxion — 19/23

Figure 20. PoC1 unoptimized and optimized plots. Optimized

plots reduce HDD seek time significantly, by an order of
magnitude equal to the number of nonces present.
Decimal (BURST)

Canonical Name

Alternate Name

1.00000000
0.01000000
0.00100000
0.00001000
0.00000100
0.00000001

BURST
cBURST
mBURST
–
uBURST
–

Burst
Bessie
–
Maybel
–
Planck

0.12345678

digit reference

–

Table 2. Units of BURST and its fractions

Dynamic Block Size and Tx Cost

Currently, the minimum tx fee is 1 Burst and the maximum
number of transactions that can go in a block is 255. Both these
hard-coded values do work well only for a narrow parameter
space of Burst value and transactional load on the network.
If we imagine a scenario where Burst rises to a value of 1,
10, 100 USD - or even BTC levels, an immutable transaction
fee of 1 Burst would certainly be inhibitory to network usage.
While that might not be a big problem in a future scenario where
Burst is used as (valuable) collateral in opening and closing
Dymaxion layers, there are other arguments against keeping
these values as-is.
Hard-capping the lower bound of tx cost to 1 Burst effectively dismisses possible Burst microtransactions, because a
transaction of 0.0012 Burst with transaction cost of 1 Burst is
illogical.
On the other hand, simply lowering transactional cost could
lead to spam attacks on the network. The low value of Burst
together with fixed cost per transaction, independent of transaction size in bytes, already did enable a spamming attack in July
2017 disturbing network operation significantly.
At this moment, the transaction fee possible for one block
are in the range from 0 Burst (for empty blocks) to 255 000
Burst (for a block filled with 255 generated assets). There is no

Figure 21. Comparison constant and linear-progressive fee

structure inclusion guideline. A linear-progressive fee structure
does allow for microtransactions, while preventing spamming
and ensuring miner rewards in same height as in the
constant-fee system under high-load conditions.

way tx fees could be above this upper limit and there is no way
- even if users would like to spend more than the minimum of 1
BURST per transaction - to get more than 255 transactions into
a block.
We propose to make transaction cost and block size dynamic values to be better able to cope with varying transactional
load on the Burst blockchain.
Given the Burst blockchain is stored in a relational database,
varying block size is not much of an issue. Yet, space on the
blockchain is to be considered a scarce, thus precious resource.
Cost of a transaction should therefore depend on how much
space it will occupy within a block and thus on the blockchain.
Furthermore, the cost of a transaction should depend on
network load, which by extension means fill state of forged
blocks. Currently values for the number of transactions and
the maximum block payload are hard coded in the burst wallet
source:
MAX_NUMBER_OF_TRANSACTIONS = 255;
MAX_PAYLOAD_LENGTH =
MAX_NUMBER_OF_TRANSACTIONS * 176;
If we assume a regular block filled with the current max.
capacity of 255 ordinary payments, the total tx fee would be
255 Burst and the payload would be 255 ∗ 176 = 44800 bytes.
This means, the current protocol expects - roughly, without
headers - to be paid 1 BURST per 176 byte of tx payload.
Compared to this, the bitcoin network22 offers a fee structure of
22 https://bitcoinfees.earn.com/

The Burst Dymaxion — 20/23

1 to 430 Satoshi per byte, with best-case 0-block delay starting
at 270 Satoshi/byte.
As of December 2017, the transaction cost structure comparison between Burstcoin and Bitcoin (1 BURST = ca. 150
Sat), shows 0.85 Satoshi/Byte in the Burstcoin network and
therefore a roughly 317x higher cost for Bitcoin block space
and ca. 900x higher cost for network transactions, as a Bitcoin
transaction is roughly 500 bytes in size23 .
In Fiat, this means that at a price of around 3 US-cent per
BURST, one byte of payload costs 0.017 cent in the Burstcoin
network and around 5.4 cent in the Bitcoin network.
If the hardcoded tx cost for the Burst network was to remain
at 1 BURST minimum, Burst would reach the same level of
tx cost that Bitcoin has today at a price of 176 ∗ 5.4 = 950.4
US-cent, therefore around $9.50.
Tx no.

Tx fee

Total fees

1
100
255
510
765
1020

0.00735
0.73500
1.87425
3.74850
5.62275
7.49700

0.00735
37.11750
239.90400
957.74175
2153.51325
3827.21850

Table 3. Progressive Tx fee reference: per-tx fee and total

block tx-fee for various number of transactions in a maximum
1020 tx/block model.
If we look at todays price levels, Burstcoin miners were
ensuring the network for a maximum payment of 91800 Burst
daily. On average, the network has been doing around 5000
tx/day. So in addition to the block reward, the transaction fee
reward per day, for the whole Burstcoin network is around $150
in December 2017.
In order to cope with future development of BURST price
and transaction volume, we propose a progressive tx fee structure guideline, where wallets can decide and priorize what
transaction to include in the current block depending on the
fill-state of the current block and memory pool backlog - see
figure 21. The area of the blue rectangle and triangle is roughly
the same (255 vs. 240). In order to be included in the next
block a transaction currently in mempool must provide a higher
tx fee than the currently free slot in the block requires. If the
transaction can fulfill this requirement, it is included in the
block, if it can’t it will wait in mempool for the next block,
where this process repeats.
The progressive approach opens the door for more on-chain
scalability. Instead of limiting the max. number of transactions to 255, we could now theoretically have an open limit
and solve much of the scalability issues blockchains have per
se. Instead, we propose a conservative extension of the max.
number of tx.transactions to 1020 (4-fold). With the same linear
progressive rule, the reference values for a 1020-tx “triangle”
are shown in table 3.
23 https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Transaction_fees

Together, these two modifications (linear-progressive fee
and max 1020 tx/block), would ensure that nominally, miner
earnings will remain the same. “Nominally” meaning same
network load, same price.
Moreover micro-transactions should be possible and under
high-load conditions miner profit would be a multiple of what
it is now. By enabling limited micro-transaction capability onchain now, Burst would open to new applications and markets.
Still, with the progressive fee structure spamming would be out
of the question and financially strong market participants could
basically “throw money at the problem”, when e.g. a financial
institute would need to open a Dymaxion layer in the current
block, it most probably could do so at a premium.
Dynamic Node Capabilities

The network consisting of P2P nodes will never be homogenous
as hardware capabilities of the nodes will always differ. In our
opinion it is not desireable to make artificial (1-dimensional)
distinction between so-called “super-nodes” and “regular-nodes”
as some cryptocurrencies do. Neither does it seem to be the
right design decision if some minimum capability requirements
on nodes are imposed to all nodes (such as available memory)
thus leaving potential capacities unused.
We believe a fine-grained configurability of nodes, extending on current principles, has to be implemented. While today
the BRS configuration options allow to allocate number of
CPUs - or enabling GPU support to the processing capacity and
also define how much network traffic and peers a node is willing
to cope with, more fundamental settings are not possible.
In the wke of the spam attacks, limits on mempool have
been hard-coded in the wallet. While this proved to be a very
effective measure against memory DoS attacks - what the spam
attack effectively was - it prevents nodes with higher resources
to make use of their full potential to support the network. We
propose the mempool size being configurable to better adjust
to the node capabilities.
Other parameters, similar to packet introspection of routing
protocols but in this case applying to parameters of transaction
datagrams, could define policies for nodes, e.g. which transactions to relay and which not. This is common practice e.g.
in the Bitcoin network, where a node can decide to support
low-fee transactions (by forwarding them) or not.
We believe a structure in the network will evolve from these
parameters, better adapted to the underlying node capabilities or what node operators are willing to provide - forming naturally a hierarchy of nodes with backbones and super-backbones
emerging from that.
On the other end of the scale it will also allow nodes to
participate which are not capable of doing so today. Very small
embedded devices from the ubiquitous IoT, that can support
the network serving even merely as repeaters with very little
resource requirements.
In section C we talked about transactions that have to remain in mempool in case they could not be included in the
current block. Because nodes have limits for mempool size,
transactions with the lowest fees are being discarded from mem-

The Burst Dymaxion — 21/23

pool first if maximum mempool size is reached. Acting as a
spam prevention, this also ensures a priorization of high-fee
priority transactions.
Nodes with more resources and higher mempool storage
parameters will still have these low-fee transactions in mempool
while others may have already discarded them. So while it will
not be impossible for a low-fee transaction to “survive” until
it gets included in a block (dip in traffic volume), tx-fee is
certainly proportional to chance of being included in a timely
manner or at all.
Dymaxion

The Burst Dymaxion is not only the most significant update to
the Burst cryptocurrency, it is the biggest technological update
any cryptocurrency has ever received. Each of the components features a full outstanding protocol feature by itself, so
establishing the Dymaxion as a whole needs to be done as an
incremental process, split up into several separate CIPs:
• adding ring signatures library
• adding zk-SNARKs library
• adding parts of the IOTA iri
• adding ACCT (ACTT) templates
As mentioned earlier, all of these components are already
in place, and some may be at the time of the publication part of
the BRS repository. The integration and enabling of these features will be subject to a community-approved roadmap defined
by block-height and adoption rate (percentage of supporting
wallets in use) for the features as described in section 5.2.
Also the features themself will be establishen in an incremental process. While there is support for all major consensus
algorithm types, only PoC - as already present - will be enabled
in the first instance of the Dymaxion.
Post-Dymaxion: PoC3

The advantages of PoC in comparison to PoW or PoS have
been mentioned and examined under multiple perspectives
already. While PoC and its designated successor PoC2 are
energy-efficient, which in our opinion is the only sustainable
way for a cryptocurrency with global impact, the space used
for the PoC consensus is of no other use than to perfom mining
and tx validation for the Burst blockchain.
Critics have pointed out that the disk space used for Burst
is “lost” or “wasted” otherwise as plots are not really usable
for anything else. This is formally true and because of this we
propose establishing a Proof-of-Capacity 3.0 consensus some
time after the Dymaxion comes to full effect.
This PoC3 will exist in parallel to PoC2. It will be based
on dual-use data instead of the Burst mining-only plots of PoC
and PoC2. Dual-use means real-world data, like movies, audio,
Wikipedia archive files, OpenStreetMap GIS data and more. In
general, large immutable files of permanent interest to all - not
the private word document, holiday picture or browser cache.

Figure 22. Symmetric Feistel cipher transformation for

individualization of a PoC3 plot file.‡

The protocol would allow these files to be announced to the
network (SHA256, size) and voted on by nodes for validation
inclusion. If a very high percentage (say 95% threshold) of the
nodes would vote in favor of adding these files to the pool of
“dual-use plots” which also implies storing these files themself,
each node would find deadlines in these files based on a succinct test of values of a virtual hard-to-pebble[17] trees laid
over individualised versions of these files. Once in the pool
of accepted plots, PoC3 plots would need to remain there, because while for mining their presence is optional, for ab-initio
validation of the blockchain when resyncing their presence is
mandatory.24
First, each PoC3-accepted file would undergo a Feistel cipher transformation (fig. 22) with the numeric Id of an account
to individualize it as plot and counter grinding attacks. The
mining process would assume the file being mapped on a RBTree(figure 23) layout as seen in figure 24.
Let the basic operation of the Feistel encryption with the
round function F and sub-keys K0 , K1 , . . . , Kn for the rounds
0, 1, . . . , n be as follows:
Split the plaintext block into two equal pieces, (L0 , R0 ), in
our case two 32-byte chunks.
24 For the future, we can picture a situation with a distinction of “full PoC
nodes” containing all PoC3 and being able to make such a resync and “restricted
PoC nodes” being able to sync blockchain from the full nodes

The Burst Dymaxion — 22/23

Figure 23. Red-Black binary tree structure for traversing PoC3

plots. Each node being a 64-byte data chunk, each depth
represents next level as depicted in the data layout of the next
figure.

Figure 24. Data layout of a PoC3 “plot”. Each level twice the

size, maximum 64 levels allow for a plot size of up to 2 YiB
(yobibyte).
For each round i = 0, 1, . . . , n, compute
Li+1 = Ri
Ri+1 = Li ⊕ F(Ri , Ki ).
Then the ciphertext is Rn+1 , Ln+1 ). Decryption of a ciphertext (Rn+1 , Ln+1 ) is accomplished by computing for i =
n, n − 1, . . . , 0
Ri = Li+1
Li = Ri+1 ⊕ F(Li+1 , Ki ).
Then (L0 , R0 ) is the plaintext again. Of course by “plaintext”
in cryptography nomenclature we mean the more generic term
original data.
Similar to the current Burst mining process, a scoop would
define the starting point in the data layout (index in the lowest
level). The algorithm would traverse the RB tree of 64-byte
scoops, where the path decision (start, then red or black for
each level) would simply be defined by the bit sequence of the
previous block-id 1=B, 0=R.
A maximum of 64 steps allows for a maximum PoC3 plot
file size of 2 YiB (yobibyte). The values along the traversed path
would be concatenated and hashed. All values along the path as
well as their hash value are then broadcast to the network, where
any nodes can take over the validation of the submitted data.
As the length of the path defines the size of the underlying plot

in a logarithmic way, also the position of a submitted deadline
on this path modifies this deadline logarithmically (in the case
of this binary tree structure this resolves to simply halving the
1
value for each level n : v = 2n−1
, so 12 for level 2, 14 for level 3
etc.
Using Feistel ciphers allows for individualization, yet lossless retrieval of arbitrary data. The symmetry guarantees the
cipher being of same length as the original data, paving the way
for a dual-use Proof-of-Capacity consensus.
The Burst blockchain will thus not only form the fundamental layer for a truly global transaction network, it can also
take over a custodian role in globally distributed redundant
storage. This means it can be used for the safe preservation of
all information that has been acquired by our civilization and
that is of permanent interest.

The Burst Dymaxion — 23/23

References
[1]

Serguei Popov. The Tangle. https://iota.org/IOTA_Whitepaper.pdf, 2017. [Online; accessed 21-October2017].

[2]

N. Petkov. Systolic Parallel Processing. Elsevier Science Inc., New York, NY, USA, 1992.

[3]

John Ratcliff. The Lightning Network Glass is Half Full Post. http://codesuppository.blogspot.com/2016/
03/the-lightning-network-glass-is-half.html, 2016. [Online; accessed 22-October-2017].

[4]

Quibus. Technical information about mining and block forging. https://burstwiki.org/wiki/Technical_
information_about_mining_and_block_forging, 2017. [Online, accessed 27-November-2017].

[5]

CIYAM Developers. Automated transactions documentation index. http://ciyam.org/at/. [Online, accessed
16-November-2017].

[6]

Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Christina Garman, Matthew Green, Ian Miers, Eran Tromer, and Madars Virza. Zerocash:
Decentralized Anonymous Payments from Bitcoin (extended version).

[7]

Nicolas van Saberhagen. Cryptonote v 2. 0. HYPERLINK https://cryptonote.org/whitepaper.pdf, 2013.

[8]

https://z.cash/technology/zksnarks.html, 2017. [Online, accessed 27-November-2017].

[9]

Christian Reitwiessner. https://blog.ethereum.org/2016/12/05/zksnarks-in-a-nutshell/, 2016.
[Online, accessed 27-November-2017].

[10]

Joseph Poon and Thaddeus Dryja. The bitcoin lightning network:scalable off-chain instant payments. https://
lightning.network/lightning-network-paper.pdf.

[11]

Meni Rosenfeld. Overview of colored coins. https://bitcoil.co.il/BitcoinX.pdf, 2012.

[12]

Nick
Johnson.
Why
i
find
iota
deeply
alarming.
why-i-find-iota-deeply-alarming-934f1908194b.

[13]

Ethan Heilman, Neha Narula, Thaddeus Dryja, and Madars Virza. Iota vulnerability report: Cryptanalysis of the curl hash
function enabling practical signature forgery attacks on the iota cryptocurrency. https://github.com/mit-dci/
tangled-curl/blob/master/vuln-iota.md.

[14]

Bryan Parno, Jon Howell, Craig Gentry, and Mariana Raykova. Pinocchio: Nearly practical verifiable computation. In IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 238–252. IEEE Computer Society, 2013.

[15]

Sunoo Park, Krzysztof Pietrzak, Albert Kwon, Joël Alwen, Georg Fuchsbauer, and Peter Gazi. Spacemint: A cryptocurrency
based on proofs of space. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2015:528, 2015.

[16]

Stefan Dziembowski, Sebastian Faust, Vladimir Kolmogorov, and Krzysztof Pietrzak. Proofs of space. IACR Cryptology
ePrint Archive, 2013:796, 2013.

[17]

Vivek Bhupatiraju, John Kuszmaul, and Vinjai Vale.
Exploring proof of space with hard-to-pebble
graphs.
https://math.mit.edu/research/highschool/primes/materials/2016/conf/10-2%
20Bhupatiraju-Kuszmaul-Vale.pdf, 2016.

https://hackernoon.com/

Licenses
†

original file: Theymos from Bitcoin wiki vectorization: Own work (https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:
Blockchain.svg), „Blockchain“, modified, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode
‡ Feistel_cipher_diagram.svg: Amirki derivative work: (https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Feistel_
cipher_diagram_en.svg), „Feistel cipher diagram en“, modified, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/
by-sa/3.0/legalcode

Changelog/Errata
• initial version

