A Treatise on Xaurum

v. 1.00
Xaurum Team
22/06/2016
www.xaurum.org

1. Introduction
Bitcoin’s invention is most commonly compared to the time of the American Gold Rush; this
analogy is misleading. The analogy equates bitcoin to gold, this is problematic because it
forms the view that bitcoins are something closer to gold than fiat currencies, and furthers the
confusion between natural and artificial scarcity. An analogy more suitable for reflection and
analysis a comparison of cryptocurrencies with early coinage, its invention in Lydia and its
adoption by the Greek poleis around 600 BCE. The times of Greek adoption of coinage were
an important factor of civilization, as Athens was sustained on the silver slave-mines, used
mainly for coinage.
Reflection of historic functions of money used in contexts long since decayed through the
ages informs us on their potential improvement and helps us avoid its regressions. The past is
not completely gone, it is partially preserved, modified in present conditions, the functions of
money are such remnants of history present in the world today and when we exclude historic
analysis from the analysis of its present use, we make the mistake of confusing its current use
for progress, and miss its regressive moments. The classical definition of money determines
four functions; money is a store of value, a medium of exchange, a measure of value, and a
standard of value, yet this functions of money are merely the functions of its use, that neglect
an important aspect of money creation, that became an evident issue, with the private money
creation of cryptocurrencies.

2

2. A short history of money and its functions
Value in general is an aesthetic idea, analogous to beauty, yet used for different purposes.
The specific cases of use of the idea of value, moral-value and use-value, and consequently
exchange-value, share this essential character. Not only is the idea of beauty, or the beauty of
the artefacts in exchange always tightly interwoven with exchange-value throughout known
history, it is essentially the same type of idea, one of actual harmony or empirical reciprocity.
Idea of value in general is composed of abstraction from some empirical idea reflected with
the criterion of identity, its ground is therefore empirical and its essence pure. We consider
value as a general idea of a standard of human practice, and consequently as the
determination of its potential practice, and the use-value as the idea of value applied to an
object. An object has a use value, if it is potentially useful for potential human practice.
2.1 A semiotic theory of value

Use-value is not the basis of exchange-value, but its ground. Use-value is the mark of
possession in general, yet when something is considered without cost it can’t be considered a
possession, even if it is undoubtedly useful. Potential use of something requires one to
possess it, on the condition that its possession is less costly than it is to acquire or create the
possession. This consideration is based on actual cost as perceived by the subject, and is only
approximately measured by exchange-value.
Without a consideration of cost, a thing is not a possession, but a mere natural thing, that
can enter exchange only through mediation of property relations. They are retrospectively
considered as use-value, because they are given an exchange-value, yet differ from
possession essentially and historically. Land and water are such examples, that can’t and did
not enter exchange until after property rather than possession started to determine exchangevalue. The obverse also holds, to transform a natural thing into a possession or property, it
must be given a potential use. For possession, because it is an actual empirical relationship, a
cost is necessary, for property, because its mode is representation, it is not. This use can be
actual or potential and should not be reduced to consumption, it is its character of
potentiality, that differentiates it from its origin in labour, scarcity or cost and it is because of
it, that it is not fully determined with it.
Potential use with an idea of cost makes a thing a possession, yet this is not sufficient for
exchange-value. When possessions are exchanged directly, there is no exchange-value, no
standard of this particular practice, that could determine this intersubjective interaction. Only
with mediation can exchange-value gain its autonomy as a specific type of value, as a
specialized semiotics that determines the potentiality of practice. This process of
specialization is a continuum that requires increasingly complex objectification to progress. It
is the semiotic character of exchange-value and its mediating force between the general
semiotics of cultural values that is a necessary part of historic analysis of production, as the
transformations of practice are essentially ideal and objective, regardless of their
implementation in things and relations.
There is no dialectics between use-value and exchange-value as ideas, because they are the
same idea, the potentiality of an object for potential practice, and no dialectics of their use as
applied to each other, because there is no fully determinant relation. However, because use
value as a general idea relates the idea to particularity without mediation, it is bound to
3

actuality of the object, for this reason exchange-value is not only another mode of use value,
but its special case. With exchange-value the bonds of actuality are broken.
The idea of exchange-value is one of relationship between property and possession,
grounded in the relationship between potential and actual possession. The peculiarity of this
mode of value is evident, when we relate it to use-value as its ground. Use value is the
potentiality of an object for potential practice, and as its particular mode, exchange value is
the potentiality of a potential object for potential practice. Because it determines practice not
with an object, but with a potential object, the object must be replaced with property
relations, and because property relations depend on the general idea of value and its
implementation in a given society, it therefore relates the particular practice to its generality.
Exchange-value includes the relative measure of cost of the object, yet even in primitive
societies, this is not a better more adequate measure of cost, it is a desubjectivisation of this
measure, by objectification and therefore a more durable measure. By relating between
property and possession, exchange-value rises things to the domain of the concept, and mere
causality to the mode of representation, this of course is not an event, but a gradual process
far from completion. Exchange-value is therefore a particular mode of use-value, that as its
special mode encompasses its totality as its content, this inclusion is particular and empirical
and depends on the context of the exchange. This does not mean that exchange-value
determines every aspect of the human practice, but rather that potentiality of human practice
partially determines exchange-value, and is expressed in it. Because of its indetermination, it
can determine itself, the more human practice is itself determined with exchange-value, the
more exchange-value can be determined with exchange-value.
Determination of potentiality of practice with exchange-value produces a surplus when
made actual, yet because it can be actualized either as additional exchange-value (profit) or
additional use-value (productivity), this surplus is indeterminate. When use-value of an object
is used to produce exchange-value, there is no determinate relationship, no direct adequate
relationship between cost and profit, because there is no relation between the use-value of a
particular thing to the exchange-value it occasions. This particular relation is determined by
practical adequation of the thing to its extrinsic purpose, productivity. The relation of profit to
productivity is necessary for growth of productivity and the growth of productivity for
progress. In negative terms, the decrease in loss of exchange-value should be related to the
decrease of loss in use-value, risk of losing money to the risk of losing productivity. This
relationship is far from necessary in-itself, but necessary to some degree for a society to
function, when this relationship is dissolved and the relationship between profit and
productivity is lost.
Exchange-value is the idea that encompasses the space between possession and property,
and had arguably first entered the world in gift economies of primitive societies. When a
society receives a gift, it is confronted with the possession of something that is not its
property. A gift is at the same time a thing to possess and an obligation to repay it with
another - debt. Spirits of another tribe haunt the society possessing the gift, until it is repaid.
To reverse Feuerbach’s thesis on alienation; it is not that human essence is alienated and
objectified in religion, but rather the objectified from of alienation is given a human essence it is spiritualized. This spiritualization is coincidental, this objectification had to be
represented, yet could not be represented adequately as humanity’s knowledge of the world
was still inadequate both in its mode and representation. Property used as a distinct idea from
possession is first used as spiritualized, yet its essential character of knowledge is preserved
4

through history. Religion as a mode of knowledge plays the role of organizing societies as the
original mode of lawfulness, based on divine reciprocity and law.
Property is actual only when possession can become non-actual, when its actuality is not
merely negated, but transformed into potentiality. Yet with progress, additional risk,
uncertainty or entropy is created that requires mitigation. Systemic entropy is the way
systems are open to their environment, not only does entropy endanger the internal
distribution of exchange value, as the element within a system, it endangers the system as a
whole, and therefore the use-value of exchange value, and the use-value affected by it. The
two dangers are the result of a single mechanism of increasing entropy of practice; for both
exchange and production externalities multiply. When externalities can be accounted for and
included in the system, they incur growth, when not, their decay.
2.2 Possession, property, debt, money

It is only by the virtual shadowy double of possession, debt, that property, becomes actual as
property, and can therefore be used as property, not mere possession. This use implies
property relations and their codification as law and consequently produces antagonisms with
the spiritualized codifications of ‘natural’ or divine law. The antagonism is a driving force of
human progress, the complexification of human interaction, creation of new types of
interaction and new types of practice facilitated by tool use sometimes occasion a better form.
A new thing means a new use, and a new use a new type of human interaction. By using
property instead of possession, human interaction can rise in complexity, that changes the
world it inhabits. This mechanism of intra-societal gift exchange, we can speculate, works as
a selection of societies with potential for cooperation; when a society returns the favour, it
demonstrates that it understands reciprocity, and therefore shows itself as possessing the
conditions for cooperation. Reciprocity can only be tested when there is a difference between
possession and property, this reciprocity is the standard of value necessary for exchange
value, that can’t arise from barter, where things are directly exchanged, but requires the form
of exchange, where the process of exchanging is given a durable form, that can either be
completed or not. Risk of non-reciprocity is used to export the greater risk of noncooperation; particular reciprocity is used to secure a more general reciprocity. The particular
reciprocity became the special standard of exchange value, the general reciprocity one of
value in general, that was at first spiritualized as divine. Because general concepts are more
abstract they elude the imagination of men, so from dawn of civilization, the more concrete
tools and concepts of exchange value are used as their allegories, and obverse because the
particular order of reciprocity is incomplete, it is supplemented with the divine order.
Barter can be viewed as the solution to mitigate the risk of non-reciprocity, once the risk of
non-cooperation is no longer a threat. Proto-money is therefore a semiotic tool, an object used
for mediating between property and possession, that creates a specialized thing one can
possess. Specialization is a specialization of use, that cannot be complete, because it includes
its exterior, human practice in general and therefore both use-value and value in general. The
difference between intrinsic and extrinsic money is one of degree, both for the general
concept of money, in its historic development, and for the particular case. We can construct
two ideal abstract types of money that do not exist, but serve as the representations of the
extremes of the spectrum of intrinsic and extrinsic money. Pure intrinsic money, as pure
commodity money, where its exchange value is perfectly identical to its use value, and pure
extrinsic money, as pure token money, where the function of exchange value is completely
5

identical to its use value, meaning that its only use is its use as exchange value. When a
money is pure commodity money, there is no difference between the value of something used
as a commodity, the value of its cost of production, and the value of it used as a currency, and
therefore no change of value in its use as money. This is practically not the case, as
commodity money is affected by demurrage, a loss of material and value through use, or the
cost of its use, and because it could only be made into money by the cost of its creation.
When something is created as money the immediate identity between exchange value and its
cost is lost, by the addition of its own use-value and its own exchange-value – money is not a
pure medium of exchange. The difference is either negative, that produces undervalued
money, or positive that produces overvalued money, in regard to the commodity out of which
it is made. True money is therefore no longer a mere thing that emerges from a practice of
exchange, but rather a relative formalization of this practice into a system where the money
serves as a transmitter. The monetary system includes money as the relationship between
possession and property, and is used in a formalized context of laws and regulation. The
system includes its exterior as cost and as debt, and therefore actual and potential cost,
because debt carries with it the uncertainty of cost. Because the element can’t represent the
whole in the same way, that it represented some part of practice as proto-money, it merely
expresses it and obscures the costs of money creation. The more difference between the cost
and nominal value, the more obscure the cost of money. The independence of nominal value
through history is the independence of property, and the independence of property depends
on the complexity of laws. Because money is used as a measure of value, by obscuring its
relationship with cost, the relationship of all economic interaction to cost is obscured. This
practical problem, was to be solved by the market, yet in this regard, markets are inefficient,
they can at best produce a Nash equilibrium, where risk is the lowest in the given context, yet
cannot relate the order of representation to the order of things. The greater the obscurity of
costs of production, the more obscure the relation of the system to its exterior, and therefore
the lesser efficiency in the system’s regulation of this relation.
Civilization emerged with domestication of plants and animals and their use for human
purposes that produced a surplus of use-value. The centralized warehouses were likely to
function as combination of different social functions, as storage, security, banks and temples.
The obsession of early cultures with the connection of the world of men and the world of
gods was perhaps not a mere fantasy, but the mark of the knowledge of two distinct orders of
reciprocity, or rather the insufficiency of particular actual reciprocity. What the actual
exchange lacks must be imagined, not to lessen one’s suffering and pacify oneself with the
injustice of the world, but to sustain the actual exchange itself. The representation of debt,
seals signifying what the granary owes to a person, were likely already used for trade as true
money. Symbolic tools for counting, keeping ledgers etc. predate written language, yet
accounting remained isolated knowledge, part of the mysteries of the priests. Inter-societal
exchange done by individual traders used commodity proto-money, obsidian and precious
metal such as gold and silver, while intra-societal exchange used more durable food such as
grain and barley. Grain became the medium of exchange, yet because grain has to be weighed
to determine its quantity, it was not suitable as a standard of measure of exchange-value, for
this function domesticated animals like oxen and cows were used (one can quickly spot, that
a third of a cow is missing), so the nominal value was determined in terms of oxen, and paid
in grain or metal. The functions of money were separate in proto-money and money, the
standard used for unit of account, was not combined with medium of exchange and store of
value, the functions are separated in practice because not all could reliably substitute
6

weighing with counting, the main event facilitating this substitution is the invention, adoption
and development of coinage.

2.3 Invention of Coinage

The Lydian Lions, coined by the Lydian King Alyattes are arguably the first coins, they
differ from proto-money such as shells, axes, metal, cattle, obsidian, wives etc. by the
distinguishing mark of authority that gives them unity of a standard. While proto-money can
function as money, it is not created as money, but rather becomes one through practice and is
therefore limited to that particular practice. Coins are of course not the first money, that is
perhaps as old as representation of counting, yet it nonetheless represents an important
historic event, that sheds light on important aspects of functions of money and a milestone in
the unification of the different functions of money. There is evidence to suggest Lydians were
not the inventors of coinage, but are merely considered as such by most classical authors
because of the proximity to the time and place of its Greek proliferation. It is this
proliferation and its conditions that tells us more about money than immediate innovations of
coinage.
Lydian Lions were coined as electrum, an artificial mixture similar to the natural alloy of
gold and silver from the river Pactolus, and were debased with copper, providing the Lydian
king with the profit of money creation - seigniorage. It is likely that Lydian king Alyattes
invented coins to tax the ongoing bullion trade, by enforcing the exclusive acceptance of the
bullions with his mark for official purposes therefore collecting seigniorage, or perhaps to
lessen the cost of the sacrifices made to gods. His son Croesus, reformed the coinage into a
bimetallic system of relatively pure gold and silver coins, that became more usable for other
purposes, because of a monopoly over the mines of gold, he fixed the ratio between them in a
way that extracted seigniorage by overvaluing gold, and did not have to debase the coins
themselves. A monopoly over gold supply was necessary for this, along with a strong
government that could guarantee the use of overvalued money, the innovation of coinage
considered in this way, seems more like an innovation of the use of seigniorage as tax, not as
immediate replacement of counting over weighing already done partially by other forms of
money.
Seigniorage differs from normal taxation in important ways, it preserves the exchange-value
of intra-societal exchange by enforcing the nominal value, and increases the exchange-value
of the government, the loss is only the relative loss of individual in inter-societal exchange,
mostly affecting the periphery of empires. It is also a tax much easier to collect, value doesn’t
have to be collected from each and every individual, only its official use must be enforced, as
an added benefit, people are of course happier to pay taxes with overvalued money. While
early warehouses/banks could perhaps collect seigniorage on issuing their tokens, this
seigniorage had to be repaid, with coinage, debt was free. By this exclusion of determination
of debt, coinage seigniorage could benefit as-if without cost, increasing the power of the
whole, by sacrificing only the individuals when interacting for their own interests – this is the
innovation that benefited the Greek.

7

2.4 Adoption of Coinage

Coinage did not represent an immediate benefit for trade, as the already existent trade tools
served better for economic transactions between individuals. The distinguishing mark of true
coins is the mark of authority that provides the coins with the uniform type, this is the
function of measure of value that creates for it a common type and serves as a unit of account
and the standard of measure. It creates a guarantee that something is money, not merely by
making it recognizable and easy to authenticate and fungible, but ensures its practical use as
money, by enforcing its use for official purposes. The creation of money as money, produces
a formalization of money, and transforms money from a thing used as money, to a system
where money is an element of economic exchange with artificial scarcity grounded on
seigniorage. It is therefore more interesting for theory to look at the benefits of coinage from
the perspective of this shift from money as a thing to money as a system, and focus on the
official purposes and seigniorage, than their classical functions that are a question of their
practical implementation.
The Greek adoption was facilitated not only by economic use, but mostly by the
particularities of the Greek relationship between exchange-value and value in general. The
antagonisms between divine law and economic exchange were plaguing the aristocratic
Athens. After Theseus unified Attica under Athens, the nobility had the right of property,
they owned the lands that could not be sold or purchased and required farmers to pay rent in
feudalistic system. The common people of Athens were losing their autonomy by becoming
debt-slaves - when they were incapable of paying their debt, they were enslaved by their
creditor. This kind of society lacked unity of interests, and produced widespread civil unrest.
Draco was appointed to deal with it severely, when he failed, Solon reformed the society, by
cancelling debts, making deb-slavery illegal and including common people into politics. He
transformed political participation from one based on blood, to one based on wealth, and
made political functionaries at least partially responsible for their action. The divine law, on
which property was founded, was slowly falling into the domain of men, not only had debtslavery ended, a new unity of politics was born, and nobility became subjected to law.
Athenian economy prospered as a result of reforms and new interest for wealth. After being
ruled by a benevolent tyrant Peisistratos, and his malevolent son Hippias, Cleisthenes
reformed Athens based on isonomia, equality before the law, that resulted in the first
democracy. Around the same time Athens coined its coins, and ushered a new era of
exchange. Before this time, aristocrats had no need for coinage, as their land-ownership
provided them with sufficient income from debt-slaves, and there was rivalry amongst the
noble houses, the common people on the other hand, had no interest in using money with
additional transaction costs, flowing into the pockets of the aristocrats. With the inclusion of
all free men into politics, the public treasury became a common interest of Athenians, and
their participation in politics was paid for with money; this enabled even the poor to attend
and enjoy leisure time. An additional use of coinage was the representation of the value of
land, that had become property governed by civil law, when the feudal relationship between
land and aristocracy was broken. All would-be tyrants were exiled and their land sold. The
ground of democracy of Athens was cemented by the use of silver coinage, as the mark of the
new form of social contract that practically served as a redistribution of wealth on the
grounds of equality. Silver coinage was both symbolic and useful, yet before it could become
useful, it was necessary for intra-societal slavery to be abolished. A society where the
8

interests of the its people were united was required, to employ a tool that benefited them as a
whole, and exploited foreigners and slaves. Coinage benefited both Athenians and other trade
because of the low seigniorage on pure Athenian owls as the first successful system of
coinage. Athens, of course did not have to capture much of seigniorage as difference between
cost and nominal value, because the mere use of silver benefited them more, much like with
gold of Croesus, it was the relatively costless monopoly of slave-mines of silver that
produced the profit of coinage and benefited all free men.

2.5 The rise and fall of Empires

The Romans reused the ideas of the Greek, continued with development of law, and used
the Lydian bimetallism for their coinage, the use of seigniorage for military payment, and its
function for exchange-value surplus recycling was essential for the function of the empire.
Soldiers were paid in money and paid taxes, to sustain the growing empire. This could only
be done because of the earlier republic had established a common interest of the people as the
public commonwealth, that has persisted through the imperial change. Seigniorage is of
course not the driving force of history, however there is some evidence to suggest, that the
collapse of Rome was partially affected by the inability of the state to efficiently capture
seigniorage, when the gold and silver reserves were depleted at the end of the time of Pax
Romana. The empire lost its benefits of controlling the dominating currency of the world, and
could no longer sustain itself.
This mode of monetary system, had, in its lesser forms, survived through medieval times,
local lords collected seigniorage for themselves, spent it on conquest. Renaissance’s
innovation in banking, the double-entry accounting, had to wait for the industrial revolution
to transform production, before the beginning of capitalism that slowly replaced the feudal
order.
Christianity had to abolish slavery in general and the French revolution, had to abolish
feudal bonds, before another systemic change could occur. Early capitalism of Britain,
increased the uses of use-value of new technology for the production of surpluses in
exchange-value. It revived the commercial practice of fractional reserve banking, as goldsmiths started to issue certificates and paid interest on the storage of gold, while they traded a
part of it for profit. This kind of representative money, was the start of modern fiat, as it
slowly shed its connection to the thing it represented and banking become included in its
creation. The scare of the French Revolution, that had employed full fiat money to sell the
land of aristocrats and failed miserably as the neighbouring monarchies were counterfeiting it
en masse causing hyperinflation strengthened the resolve of monarchies in the use of gold
species standard. Circulation of gold coin slowly changed into gold bullion standard, where
money represents a fixed quantity of gold and is exchangeable for it, and the gold standard,
where a currency fixed its exchange ratio to the currency with bullion or species standard.
The gold standard was abandoned as it potentiated the recession of early 20th century into
the Great Depression, and the fractal reserve system was slowly abandoned after
governments lost their wealth to the world wars. The modern fiat system is partially
9

determined by this process of abandonment that provided more and more seigniorage that
provides more control over debt and a greater efficiency of monetary policy, done with
fractional reserve banking that includes the specific debts of economies into the process of
money creation. With this change, the unified functions of money were unified with functions
of public and private financial institutions. The system of money is separated from the order
of particular things and takes the general thing, the economy, as its basis, money creation
becomes fully monetized. This makes seigniorage intrinsic, and with this, the exchange-value
becomes fully monetarized. With this full monetarization, the cost of liquidity is equal to the
risk of loss of exchange-value, yet without an increase of regulation and distribution, this risk
cannot be correlated with the risk of loss of productivity. Although today the main tool of
seigniorage is the change of interest rates, it is not used well for its systemic functions and the
inflationary model it uses, presents a progressive tax on the poorest – prices might be sticky,
yet wages are stickier still.
The International Monetary Fund was founded after the Great Depression as an international
safeguard against the dangers of crises, it had denied the proposal of Keynes, that would
enforce a neutral money as international unit of account, and instead supported the U.S.
extraction of seigniorage from all the world’s economies, and accelerated the dominion of its
monetary policy. This worked as long as the systemic functions of seigniorage were used
productively, yet the Great Recession had already shown the cracks in the system. Because
fiat systems are tied to the particular economies, their use includes private interests of
governments, and because they are unified with the private financial institutions, the private
interests of individuals. When fiat is used as a reserve currency for another country, it
presents a considerable advantage for the economies of the reserve currencies, and
antagonisms of interests in both. Much like Athens in the times of Theseus, we already live in
a unified world, yet one plagued with intra-and-inter societal debt-bondage, one without
equality before law, without a commonwealth and therefore without a common interest. Far
from being an apolitical form of money, crypto-currencies enable enforcement of monetary
policy without force, and therefore ground the potentiality of politics separated from violence
and geography. This is the potential of crypto-currencies, the progression past the limitations
and particularities of fiat currencies, necessarily tied to the partial interests of their countries.

2.6 The potential of cryptocurrencies

Current implementations of cryptocurrencies still lack much when considered for their
purpose as money, their improvement regarding the classical functions is necessary, along
with the progress in implementation of seigniorage for its systemic purpose. The main
achievement of Bitcoin, was to produce a distributed public ledger, whose integrity can be
protected with means of cryptography and economy alone, its use in finance could decrease
the role of shadow-banking and systemic corruption. However, because the population of
crypto falls into the intersection of ideological spaces between cypherpunk and
libertarianism, the role of public ledger is seen as inessential. Since the invention of Bitcoin,
most of the effort is directed at removing the public ledger as the function of public
transparency of economic interaction for the benefit of anonymity. Although anonymity is a
useful tool for the individual trying to resist a corrupt regime, the abolition of this corruption
is the greater cause. The potential of public ledgers to abolish shadow-banking is still far
10

removed, as crypto-currencies themselves currently fall into this exact category, as viewed
from traditional regulatory institutions, and more often than not, rightly so, as the vast
majority of interaction in the space of crypto-currencies is one of fraud. Blockchains are the
first implementation of a distributed public ledger produced by a synchronous decentralized
consensus, it is because synchronicity can’t be achieved with cryptography alone, that
economic game theory has to be applied for this purpose. There is a lot of technical
innovation still required to increase the use of cryptography for the functions that are in
current schemes done by economics, however the function of seigniorage will always be
determined by economics. The essential technical innovation of crypto is the creation of a
public ledger with the ability of codification of property relations, this will without doubt
create new forms of relations between property and possessions, yet will also have to
preserve some of the old, such as money. Public ledger enables triple-entry accounting, that
in addition to the double-entry accounting, that accounts for values as debt and credit
respectively, separately accounts for the legitimate change of values. Current
implementations of achieving consensus are done by employing the function of seigniorage
in an inefficient manner, this means they do not represent an improvement over the
implementation of fiat, but rather implement its lower form into a digital context, by this they
constitute a progression of monetary technology, but not of money itself.
Money is a practical semiotic tool that determines human practice by relating exchangevalue and use-value thorough relating property, as codified law of society, to possession
through debt. It is either productive or unproductive in relating exchange-use and useexchange, by increasing the potentiality of objects in human practice, cultivating possessions
into a more adequate form for our purposes or by increasing the exchange-value of the whole.
Because it is a practical semiotic tool that relates property relations to possession, it creates
social antagonisms and conflicts with the immediate relation between property, law and
subjectivity. These antagonisms multiply especially when the codification of property
relations divides the interests of a society. These conflicts affect the sphere of values of
societies, the grey spheres of morality, as un-codified values. Money can only relate property
to possession through debt, and consequently requires a mitigation of the increase of entropy
of this inclusion. Because this inclusion of debt is a function of money creation, that at the
same time produces a surplus of exchange-value as seigniorage, the latter therefore has a
systemic role in the system, one of mitigation of entropy. In fiat, where exchange-value is
fully monetized, this role is crucial, as monetization means that seigniorage becomes
intrinsic, and representation stops representing, thus completely abandoning its relation with
costs.
Money is a system of the relating of semiotic content to its environment, the regulation of
the world with the dominion of law, and its consequence the formalization of useful things to
property relations and their regulation. While this process itself depends on empirical forces,
on violence, it can never attain universality it requires, no common interest of man in general
can be achieved and its role as a general equivalent will always function as the dominion of
particular interests. As long as its existence depends on a particular force, particular interests
play a determining role, and no common social contract is possible, no common ground.
Cryptographically secured public ledgers remove this need for violence, and provide us with
the opportunity to base the common grounds on knowledge instead of power.

11

Seigniorage is the essential property of money as money, a function that connects it to
monetary policy and makes monetary policy internal to it, by this it relates property relations
to the specific possession of money and determines its value. With cryptocurrencies, a
monetary system is possible without the use of force, and consequently without an actual
government, yet this lack does not make it apolitical, but rather necessitates a different form
of politics for its adoption and use. The particularity of interest that fiat includes as its
monetary policy is possible, and because cryptocurrencies only have a minimal economy, it
breeds even more particular interests. Despite this, it has a potential for universality like no
other type of money before it.
What is therefore required, is the development of monetary policy that would circumvent
the reliance of money to economy and use seigniorage for its systemic function, as a
mechanism that exports entropy and correlates exchange-value to use-value, using profit of
money creation for its productive use. The ideal money, as we view it, is not a currency with
a stable value, but one with increasing value, that at the same time distributes exchange-value
and distributes the surplus of increased productivity of use-value. A stable currency only
means that the value increased productivity has not been distributed and is a structural
inefficiency in exchange-value distribution, required for stability of the system. The task of
cryptocurrencies is not only the development of technology to provide a better use of money,
but also the exploration of the space of monetary policies in these new conditions, to seek
improvement in the systemic use of seigniorage. This is the main concern of Xaurum, the
unification of the interests of all its users, based on an increasing commonwealth
implemented as a cryptocurrency with dynamic and distributed elastic seigniorage.

12

3. Xaurum
Xaurum is a representative cryptocurrency based on an increasing amount of gold. It is
designed as a store of value first, and uses distribution of seigniorage to achieve its goal.
Regardless of the technology of its implementation, Xaurum could be summed up as an
economic game with the next economic agents: the commonwealth, traders, users, money
creators and the foundation. Increase of the commonwealth gold provides the basis of unity
of interests of all economic agents, this is the main systemic function of seigniorage, its other
functions are used to regulate the particularity of the interests of economic agents into unity.
Because the commonwealth is composed of physical gold, that provides the guarantee to be
exchanged for xaurum, it requires centralized control over money creation (coinage) and
destruction (melting). For this task a legal entity Auresco Institute was created, that sustains
itself with the rebate on gold. Certified 999.9 investment gold is bought from Good Delivery
refineries and because its retail prices are relatively high, Auresco can charge its fee while
still providing lower than retail prices of gold for the commonwealth. Because xaurum in
exchange has a higher market value, than the value of its gold base, the difference can be
used for increasing the commonwealth and incentivizing coinage (details in section 3.3
Coinage). Market value is used to mitigates counterparty risk, and commonwealth value
mitigates market value risk, to ensure its function as the storage of value with the addition of
surplus. Commonwealth is sustained by seigniorage, collection of fees of transactions and
will seek additional forms of income through economic activity of Auresco.

3.1 Functions of cryptographic monetary systems

(a) consensus
Consensus is a practical intersubjective agreement for a single data value. Distributed
consensus is currently achieved for cryptocurrencies in two ways, by proof-of-work and
proof-of-stake. Proof-of-work, requires mining, the process of finding blocks, bundles of
recent transactions, and verifying them by using computation. Mining blocks, verifies
transactions and is rewarded by collecting transaction fees and seigniorage of money
creation. Proof-of-stake uses the tokens of cryptocurrency as miners, making them less
dependent on electricity, as most of electricity of proof-of-work is not used for useful
computation, but competition for seigniorage. Proof-of-stake currencies use quantity of
tokens for this competition and unite the interests of users and miners by making possession
of tokens sufficient for creation of new money.
- centralization of seigniorage / division of interests
The antagonism of proof-of-work and proof-of-stake mechanisms is one between the
security of the blockchains and centralization of money creation - the security of a blockchain
depends on the distribution of mining/staking, and because mining/staking is collecting all
seigniorage, mining/staking is centralizing. Its systemic function is limited to creation of
consensus, creating antagonism of interests between money creators (miners/stakers) and
users.
13

- market loss of seigniorage
Another problem of capturing seigniorage is potentiated by the increased money velocity of
cryptocurrencies, achieved by making the function of money as medium of exchange digital
and therefore much more efficient. This increased velocity of money, means a loss of
captured seigniorage to the market, as the demand for new cryptocurrency is
indistinguishable from a general demand for more exchange-value. The result is the decrease
in price that decreases the exchange-value of users and increases the exchange-value of
miners in another currency, this is factor is potentiated when real costs like electricity are
relevant.
- commodity loss of seigniorage
In proof-of-work seigniorage is captured through competition, and therefore partially lost in
the form of electricity cost (negative seigniorage mechanism of difficulty), this loss is
prevented in proof-of-stake, as their cost is trivial (liquidity), yet this solution has its own
problems. The cost of liquidity is equal to risk of value, and because value is correlated to
technical innovation it is immediately endangered by competition, these problems are perhaps
good short-term initiatives for innovation, yet they reduce their functionality as money,
especially as store of value. Xaurum bases all its other functions on its function as a storage
of value, and uses the proof-of-stake model, its value is the combination of intrinsic value of
the digital asset and extrinsic value as a representation of a physical-asset.
- end of seigniorage as the base of artificial scarcity
The other issue of current cryptocurrencies is their two-fold model, that demands the end
point to the new money supply in order to produce artificial scarcity. This is a consequence of
the halving mechanism used for artificial scarcity, where at a point in time, production of new
money supply is halved. Xaurum bases its artificial scarcity differently, not on the quantity of
new money supply, but on quantity of gold required for new money supply to enter
circulation.
(b) public ledger
The blockchains combine the function of consensus with the function of public ledger, they
are nonetheless distinct and could be separated in different cybernetic systems. While
consensus is used to prevent double-spending by linking new transactions to the history of all
transactions, the function of the public ledger is to represent all transactions and distributions
in currency, or rather to publicly represent objective information in general. Because the
blockchain combines both functions, it requires synchronicity of the system and the whole of
the past must be included in every full node.
The true accomplishment of cryptocurrencies, despite the dominant sentiment in favour of
anonymity, is the public ledger. This is the practical intersubjective epistemic field, created
by consensus that enables the epistemic agents to know that they know what they know.
Public ledgers are a practical application of the positive introspection axiom of epistemic
14

logic: “Knowledge of p implies knowledge of knowledge of p.” and useful for every instance
of our dependence on objective information, such as property relations, law and money. The
classical functions of money that are based on representation, that is unit of account, standard
of value, medium of exchange, are easily achieved by public ledgers. Ledgers elevate
exchange to the mode of representation, however the function of storage of value remains
extrinsic to public ledgers. That is, we can know, the unit of value, the sender and receiver of
value, the type of value, but not value itself. For this reason, all cryptocurrencies are
representative in the same manner as fiat, or better defined as expressive as the intrinsic value
of consensus determines their value, and should be considered as digital commodities first,
and money second, as the expression of this value. Expression, however, is not representation
and value itself is left undetermined. Because of the essential function of the public ledger,
Xaurum will prioritise its functions over others in implementing its policies.

15

3.2 Xaurum monetary policy

The main purpose of all Xaurum monetary policy is to sustain the common interest by
increasing the commonwealth. The commonwealth is stored as gold reserves that serve as the
basis of Xaurum's value, the increase of the commonwealth increases the base value of all
Xaurum. This means that the ratio of Xaurum to gold is increasing with coinage, and the
users of Xaurum are rewarded with an increase of exchange-value, both as the determined
increase of exchange-value in gold and the indetermined increase of exchange-value of its
price. Xaurum's main innovation is aliquid, the dynamic distributed elastic seigniorage.
Aliquid is used for systemic functions of Xaurum and is the changing ratio between the
seigniorage paid to the commonwealth in gold and the seigniorage paid to the money creator
in xaurum.

(a) the supply of money
Xaurum's money supply is elastic, coinage of new money supply is determined by demand.
Because coinage of new money pays part of seigniorage to the money creator, the demand for
Xaurum can be only a cloaked demand for more exchange-value in general, this would mean
that seigniorage would not be captured and the commonwealth would not increase. To
distinguish between the demand for Xaurum and demand for exchange-value in general,
some additional regulation of coinage is necessary. The goal of coinage is sustainability of
seigniorage for the benefit of the commonwealth.

- mining
Xaurum mining is done by mining other cryptocurrencies for value, exchanging their value
for gold, and issuing Xaurum. The higher the quantity of miners mining, the higher the
seigniorage given to them. More miners mean more market activity and consequently more
volume, this increase of volume should be proportional to the seigniorage given to sustain the
price of Xaurum. The goal of xaurum mining is to find an easy to use distributed mining
process (that seems likely with storage mining), to provide a distribution of xaurum for trivial
costs to the miner and non-trivial surplus in xaurum.

- minting
Minting requires a masternode, possession of 1000 Xaurum as the proof and guarantee of
the common interest that the Xaurum commonwealth requires. Because minter possesses
1000 Xaurum, he has the good of the whole in mind, as he profits both from the increase of
the commonwealth and from seigniorage. It is therefore in his interest to sustain the market
price both to keep profiting from seigniorage and for seigniorage to profit him directly.
Minting is additionally restricted by the last price of minting, as there was demand for new
Xaurum at the former minting, we can consider that there is no new demand when the market
prices are not higher. Minting also requires a legal entity to be established, to prevent issues
16

with governments. The goal of minting is to provide a distribution of xaurum for money,
lowering the costs of large amounts of new coinage.

(b) availability of money
Because the immediate relation with the market would result in a unsustainable inflation
decreasing seigniorage, coinage is restricted by the determinations of coinage, and artificial
scarcity mechanism of increasing density, that ensures that coinage does not happen with zero
or negative seigniorage to the commonwealth. Through this mechanisms, Xaurum achieves
money supply inflation.

(c) cost of money
The cost of Xaurum increases as the ratio of gold to Xaurum increases. With the growth of
the commonwealth, each xaurum is exchangeable for an increasing amount of gold, and to
create new xaurum an increasing amount of gold is required. To accelerate this process and
increase seigniorage the artificial scarcity mechanism of density is applied as the increase of
cost for coinage. Through this mechanisms, Xaurum achieves price deflation.

(d) cost of transaction
Every transaction pays a small fee, this fee is excluded from the money supply, further
increasing the ratio of gold to Xaurum.

17

3.3 Xaurum Coinage

Xaurum Coinage produces new money supply; it is organized as a commonwealth where
inflation immediately profits all users by increasing the base value of Xaurum in a greater
proportion than it decreases it by money inflation.
(a) coinage table:
Name
Gold Price

Symbol
Gp

Value or formula
Gold price

Xaurum Ratio

Xr

Determined in
previous coinage

1.8

Xaurum Density

Xρ

Determined in
Xaurum Coinage
Density table

1.2

Transmutation
limit

Unit
USD/g

Example
52.5 USD/g

100 Xaurum

XAU

100 XAU

Gold used for
coinage in
USD/Gp
Determined in
reward table by
Cg

g

30 g

Coinage gold

Cg

GoldMine
Reward

R

Minting Reward

R

R=1

Aliquid

A

Xm-Xb*Xρ

USD

53.33 USD

Market price

Xm

Market purchase
price

USD/XAU

166.50 USD/XAU

18

0.66

1

Explanation
The price of 1 g
of 999.9 purity in
USD, with
Auresco rebate
included.
Xaurum ratio
represents the
quantity of
physical gold
represented by 1
XAU.
Density ensures
Xaurum growth
even if Xaurum
market price is
below base price,
it increases with
the number of
Xaurum coined.
There is a
maximum of 100
Xaurum per
calculation.
Mined or minted
gold since last
payout.
Goldmine
reward,
determined in
tables. More
gold used for
coinage the
more rewards
miners get.
Minting is done
by master nodes,
at the maximum
miner reward.
Aliquid is the
difference
between the
market price and
critical density
price.
Xaurum market
price in USD,
determined on
the exchange
with the most
Xaurum daily

Base price

Xb

Gp*Xr

USD/XAU

94.31 USD/XAU

Critical density
price

Xbρ

Xb*Xρ

USD

113.1687477
USD

Mining price

Xi

Xbp+A*0.5*(2-R)
if A<0 then
Xi=Xbp

USD/XAU

148.9

Minting price

Xt

Same as Xi with
R=1

USD/XAU

139.83

Miner reward

Ir

Xm-Xi

USD/XAU

17.6

Mining
profitability

Ip

(Xm-Xi)/Xi*100

%

11.82

Minter reward

Tr

Xm-Xt

USD/XAU

26.67

Minting
profitability

Tp

(Xm-Xt)/Xt*100

%

19.07

19

volume, as the
buy price.
Xaurum base
price represents
Xaurum value in
physical gold.
Base price with
density. When
Aliquid is equal
or less than 0,
this is the price
of Xaurum
Coinage.
This is the price
reqired for 1
Xaurum to enter
circulation via
mining. When
Aliquid is equal
or less than zero,
the price is equal
to Critical density
price.
This is the price
required for 1
Xaurum to enter
circulation via
minting. Minting
is possible only
when Xaurum
price is higher
than the last
price used for
minting.
Discount on
market price for
miners (USD).
The profitability
percentage of
minig XAU
compared to
direct mining
(BTC, LTC, ...)
Discount on
market price for
minters (USD).
Minting reward
in %.

(b) density values

Coinage (Xaurum) Density

20

1000
5000

1.10
1.20

5500

1.21

6000

1.22

6500

1.23

7000

1.24

7500

1.25

8000

1.26

8500

1.27

9000

1.28

9500

1.29

10000

1.30

11000

1.31

12000

1.32

13000

1.33

14000

1.34

15000

1.35

16000

1.36

17000

1.37

18000

1.38

19000

1.39

20000

1.40

22000

1.41

24000

1.42

26000

1.43

28000

1.44

30000

1.45

32000

1.46

34000

1.47

36000

1.48

38000

1.49

40000

1.50

44000

1.51

48000

1.52

52000

1.53

56000

1.54

60000

1.55

64000

1.56

21

68000

1.57

72000

1.58

76000

1.59

80000

1.60

92000

1.61

104000

1.62

116000

1.63

128000

1.64

140000

1.65

152000

1.66

164000

1.67

176000

1.68

188000

1.69

200000

1.70

220000

1.71

240000

1.72

260000

1.73

280000

1.74

300000

1.75

320000

1.76

340000

1.77

360000

1.78

380000

1.79

400000

1.80

430000

1.81

460000

1.82

490000

1.83

520000

1.84

550000

1.85

580000

1.86

610000

1.87

640000

1.88

670000

1.89

700000
730000
760000
790000
820000
850000
880000
910000
940000
970000
1000000

1.90
1.91
1.92
1.93
1.94
1.95
1.96
1.97
1.98
1.99
2.00

(c) density graph

22

(d) mining reward values

Coinage gold (g) Reward
1
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
34
40
46
52
58
64
82
86
90
94
100

23

0.50
0.52
0.54
0.56
0.58
0.60
0.62
0.64
0.66
0.68
0.70
0.72
0.74
0.76
0.78
0.80
0.82
0.84
0.86
0.88
0.90
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
1.00

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE----Hash: SHA512

v. 1.00
Xaurum Team
22/06/2016
www.xaurum.org
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE----Version: Keybase OpenPGP v2.0.53
Comment: https://keybase.io/crypto

wsBcBAABCgAGBQJXarHVAAoJEHJK4jg4BVP+iCcIAJ6SkB07ssYcABTFh1aNwRjW
b4LROzyoBDgX2raPua3OYjwZGKYsj8AG7Mib+kVy2yw9sXS/eZovX6syS/tfauGK
ptbtRihV/8EwEqHzUQhwEgHjYGqedY+IXswG5zdu0PwrJMkcpGa1A2TJBPLk55f2
O6TYIvRDF061NtsdNP4Mb3gK87qTbLdmkjLRXApXHaoBB6m2QaqEdTg07PQviiM7
aeTYM+z19ma+biPAZoHVzQcHAor++tQsdCdACwjd8RSsGVuk8riXa7coCbuTY8wT
+k75Ru9U9ECE6JeskSkVm1+1CW3BDRq+FcjBCr88lahCQVgkAhX5ENsDQxtixwE=
=aT/q
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

24

