W H I T E P A P E R

Ver 1.03

LAST UPDATED: 10 AUG 2020

Disclaimer
PLEASE READ THIS DISCLAIMER CAREFULLY AS IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION. PLEASE CONSULT YOUR
PERSONAL LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX OR OTHER APPROPRIATE PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S) BEFORE TAKING ANY ACTION.
The Tokens (as described in this Whitepaper) are not intended to constitute securities in any jurisdiction. This Whitepaper
is not a prospectus or oﬀering document of any kind. It is not intended to constitute an oﬀer of securities or a solicitation
for investment in securities in any jurisdiction. This Whitepaper also does not constitute or form part of any opinion or
any advice to sell, or any solicitation of any oﬀer by the distributor or issuer of the Tokens to purchase any Tokens nor
shall it, or any part of it, nor the fact of its presentation, form the basis of or be relied upon in connection with any
contract or investment decision.
There are material risks and uncertainties associated with TriumphX, its business and operations, the Tokens, including
that any Token sale may not occur. This Whitepaper, any part thereof and any copy thereof must not be taken or
transmitted to any country where distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper or the Tokens is prohibited or
restricted. No part of this Whitepaper is to be reproduced, distributed or disseminated without including this section.
TriumphX is a recently organized start-up company, subject to all the risks and uncertainties of a new enterprise.
TriumphX’s blockchain-based technology is in an early stage of development, will be subject to modiﬁcation as issues
inevitably emerge, and ultimately may not be accepted in the marketplace. The statements in this Whitepaper are made
only as of the date set forth on the cover page. Accordingly, TriumphX and its aﬃliates do not make or purport to make,
and hereby disclaim, any representation, warranty or undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person,
including any representation, warranty or undertaking as to the continued accuracy and completeness of any of the
information set out in this Whitepaper.
By accessing or accepting possession of any information in this Whitepaper or any part thereof, you represent and
warrant to TriumphX and its aﬃliates as follows: 1. You agree and acknowledge that the Tokens do not constitute
securities in any form in any jurisdiction; 2. You agree and acknowledge that this Whitepaper does not constitute a
prospectus or oﬀer document of any sort and is not intended to constitute an oﬀer of securities in any jurisdiction or
solicitation for investments in securities and you are not bound to enter into any contract or binding legal commitment
and no cryptocurrency (including the Tokens) or other form of payment is to be accepted based on this Whitepaper; 3. You
agree and acknowledge that no regulatory authority has examined or approved of the information set out in this
Whitepaper, no action has been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction by
TriumphX or its aﬃliates in connection with the dissemination of this Whitepaper, and the publication, distribution or
dissemination of this Whitepaper to you does not imply that any applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have
been complied with; 4. You agree and acknowledge that this Whitepaper, the undertaking and/or completion of any
future Token sale or future trading of the Tokens on any cryptocurrency exchange, shall not be construed, interpreted or
deemed by you as an indication of the merits of TriumphX or the Tokens; 5. The distribution or dissemination of this
Whitepaper, any part thereof or any copy thereof, or the acceptance of the same by you, is not prohibited or restricted by
any laws, regulatory requirements or rules applicable to you, and where any restrictions in relation to possession are

2

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

applicable, you have observed and complied with all such restrictions at your own expense and without liability to
TriumphX or its aﬃliates; 6. You agree and acknowledge that if you elect to purchase any Tokens, the Tokens are NOT to
be construed, interpreted, classiﬁed or treated as: a. any kind of currency other than cryptocurrency; b. debentures,
stocks or shares issued by any person or entity (whether TriumphX or its aﬃliates), including any rights, options or
derivatives thereof; c. units in a collective investment scheme; d. units in a business trust; e. derivatives of units in a
business trust; or f. any other security or class of securities. 7. You are fully aware of and understand that you are NOT
eligible to purchase any Tokens if you are a citizen of one of the countries listed in the section below titled “Notices for
Particular Investors”; 8. You have a basic degree of understanding of cryptocurrencies, blockchain-based software
systems, cryptocurrency wallets or other related token storage mechanisms, blockchain technology and smart contract
technology; 9. You are fully aware and understand that in the case where you wish to purchase any Tokens, there are
material risks associated with TriumphX and its business, plans and operations, the Tokens and any potential future sale
or distributions of the Tokens; 10. You agree and acknowledge that none of TriumphX nor its aﬃliates is liable for any
indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including, but not
limited to, loss of revenue, income or proﬁts, and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection with any acceptance
of or reliance on this Whitepaper or any part thereof by you; 11. You acknowledge and agree that TriumphX can make
material amendments to this Whitepaper at any time after the date hereof and without any notice to you or your
consent, and you further acknowledge and agree that TriumphX makes no representation or warranty regarding the
accuracy of any information set forth in this Whitepaper; and 12. All of the above representations and warranties are true,
complete, accurate and non-misleading from the time of your access to and/or acceptance of possession of this
Whitepaper or any part thereof.
This Whitepaper may contain forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, statements as to future
operating results and plans that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of TriumphX to
diﬀer materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by those projected in the
forward-looking statements for any reason. NO ADVICE No information in this Whitepaper should be considered
business, legal, ﬁnancial or tax advice regarding TriumphX, the Tokens or any future Token sale or distribution. You should
consult your own legal, ﬁnancial, tax or other professional adviser regarding TriumphX, and its business and operations
and the Tokens. You may be required to bear the ﬁnancial risk of any purchase of the Tokens for an indeﬁnite period of
time or suﬀer the complete loss of any amounts paid for the Tokens.
NOTICES FOR PARTICULAR INVESTORS For residents of the People’s Republic of China (which, for the purposes of this
Whitepaper, does not include Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan) only: The Tokens may not be marketed, oﬀered or sold
directly or indirectly to the public in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”) and neither this Whitepaper nor the
Purchase Documents, which has not been submitted to the PRC securities and regulatory commission, nor any oﬀering
material or information contained herein relating to the Tokens, may be supplied to the public in the PRC or used in
connection with any oﬀer for the subscription or sale of the Tokens to the public in the PRC. The information contained
in this Whitepaper and the Purchase Documents will not constitute an oﬀer to sell or an invitation, advertisement or
solicitation of an oﬀer to buy any Tokens within the PRC. Residents of the United States or any country subject to
sanctions from the United States, including without limitation Belarus, Burundi, Central African Republic, Cuba, Iran.

3

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Abstract
The global gaming industry has grown rapidly in the last decade with vibrant thriving communities growing
from various games such as Fortnite. Despite the size of the gaming industry, gamers still have little control
over their in-game assets which has been fully monopolised by the game creators themselves with little
regulatory oversight on the area.
The market for secondary trading of in-game items is estimated to be a whopping 50 billion USD in 2018
with a large volume of microtransactions occurring. Despite the size of the market, secondary market
trading of items is frequently prohibited, and where they are allowed, the game service providers or
third parties service providers charge a large hefty commission fee on the transactions.
Despite the high fees, users have no alternatives to secondary market trading due to the need for two
parties to be able to trust each other in P2P trading. This necessitates the use of blockchain technology to
eliminate the need for trust to conduct the transactions. For such a system to work, it is crucial that the
blockchain is stable, scalable and secure for the game item trading industry.
TriumphX aims to provide a decentralised exchange to conduct peer-to-peer (P2P) trading without the need
for hefty fees and to lose control of their digital in-game assets.

TriumphX was designed
and built by gamers, for gamers.

4

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Market Overview
Newzoo forecasts that the game market will continue to grow in the following years, exceeding $200 billion
at the end of 2023. By then, the games market will grow with a +8.3% CAGR to $200.8 billion.

+7.7 %

Global Games
Market Forecast

Total Market CAGR
2018-2023

Forecast Toward 2023

$200.8Bn
$138.5Bn

$145.7Bn

2018

2019

$159.3Bn

2020

2023

Source: ©Newzoo - 2020 Global Games Market Report
newzoo.com/globalgamesreport

It is also estimated that the 2020’s global game market will generate revenues of $159.3 billion USD, which
represents a healthy 9.3% year-on-year growth. While all game segments have an increase in engagement
and revenues in 2020, mobile gaming experienced the biggest increase. In total, mobile games will generate
revenues of $77.2 billion in 2020, growing +13.3% year on year, the fastest among all segments.

5

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

+77.2 Bn

2020 Global
Games Market

Mobile game revenues in
2020 will account for 48%
of the global market

Per Device & Segment with
Year-on-Year Growth Rates

MOBILE

PC

$77.2 Bn

$36.9 Bn

+13,3% YoY

9% 2%

TABLET GAMES

$13.7 Bn
+2.7% YoY

(SMART)PHONE GAMES

$63.6 Bn
+15,8% YoY

48%

23%

BROWSER PC GAMES

$3.0 Bn

21%

-13,4% YoY

2020 TOTAL

40%

$159.3Bn

BOXED/DOWNLOADED
PC GAMES

+9.3%
YoY

28%

+4,8% YoY

$33.9 Bn
+6,7% YoY

28%

CONSOLE

$45.2 Bn
+6,8% YoY

Source: ©Newzoo - 2020 Global Games Market Report - April Update
newzoo.com/globalgamesreport

There is a wide variety of platforms that complements the vibrant and thriving gaming markets for PC and
Console games such as streaming services via Twitch, secondary market trading for in-game digital items
and through third party services such as ItemBay. However, despite the size of the mobile gaming market,
the complementary services to the mobile industry is signiﬁcantly smaller.

These complementary services have a signiﬁcantly smaller market as Global Esports revenue projections
through 2022 by various reputable sources including Goldman Sachs, Newzoo, SuperData, PwC and Business
Insider Intelligence puts the size of Esports market to be 1.5bn USD to 3bn USD. While projections vary, the
common consensus is that the Esports market can be expected to grow rapidly and double over the next
two years.

6

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Global Esports Revenue Projections Through 2022
Millions

Newzoo

Goldman Sachs

SuperData

PwC

Bll

$3,000
$2,500
$2,000
$1,500
$1,000
$500

2023

2019E

2020E

2021E

2022E

Source: Business Insider Intelligence, PwC Global Entertainment &
Media Outlook 2019-2023, Newzoo, SuperData, Goldman Sachs

Esports used to be considered as a niche group of users and a subset of sports culture, but its rapid growth
due to popular games such as Fortnite ad championing from mainstream celebrities such as Michael Jordan,
Drake and DJ Marshmello has led to Esports growing into a vibrant industry of its own.

The vibrancy of the gaming market and Esport market has also led to a third market that is rapidly growing,
secondary market transactions for the digital in-game items. The size of the market is estimated to have at
least $50 billion USD of Gross Merchandise Value according to Juniper Research. This is a massive growth
from the current $30 billion USD in Gross Merchandise Value in 2018. Around 60% of console gamers have
purchased virtual items at some point, along with 43% of PC gamers and 33% of smartphone gamers. In the
last 12 months, video gamers have spent an average of $133 (console gamers), $96 (PC gamers), and $37
(smartphone gamers) on virtual items.

7

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Limitations of Secondary
Market Transactions
Lack of Trust
Despite the potential size of the secondary market transactions for in-game digital items, there is a lack of
trust among the buyer and sellers. This gives rise to the need for third party custodial services which take
hefty commission fees in the process. Fees vary among the third party service providers, but generally fees
can be as high as 10% of the transaction. With an estimated industry size of $50 billion USD, this can be up
to a whopping $5 billion USD in fees collected from users representing value lost to users due to the inability
to trust.
Through TriumphX, users can engage with TriumphX smart contract to securely lock their items for P2P
transfers. The smart contract will only release both items once both users have locked their respective
Non-Fungible Token (NFT) and TRIX token for trading. Such blockchain service eliminates the need for trust
among buyers and sellers and allows for seamless P2P transactions instantaneously.

Lack of security
Despite the hefty commissions collected by third party custodial services facilitating the trading of in-game
items, it is still necessary to trust that the third party custodial service and automated trading bots are
functioning properly without glitches. Among the users of third party trading services, the most important
aspect users look out for is the security of the platform. While some third party services have established a
reputation among the gaming community, security at these services may still be compromised and hacking
remains a prevalent issue among service providers that handles large volumes of transactions

Low Liquidity
Trading of in-game items in the secondary markets is highly fragmented with various third party service
providers. The wide variety of items provided in the markets also creates diﬃculties in ensuring high
liquidity in some markets. TriumphX solves this through a two-prong method, (1) combining all of these
markets through a single neutral network that all third party service providers can trade eﬃciently for NFTs
that exists across all types of blockchains, and (2) the incentive mechanism provided to liquidity providers
of NFTs to ensure deep liquidity in markets.

8

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Non-transparent information
Information regarding in-game items is diﬃcult to obtain as there is no transparent database on statistics
of each in-game item such as the total quantity of items that are in existence, the total number of items
that are being traded actively, trading volume of items, and the rate of emission of new items. Without such
information, the market largely relies on price discovery which can be ineﬃcient due to asymmetrical
information. Large third party service providers for secondary market trading may be able to manipulate
such markets given the better access of information that they have.
Through TriumphX, all information regarding in-game items are recorded transparently on the blockchain
and users can use our block explorer to ﬁnd out more information about the quantity of in-game items in
existence, their last traded price, and even to obtain information on historical traded prices. Users can also
observe whether there are attempts to hoard a particular item for market manipulation and can be more
aware of trading such items in a more eﬃcient market.

Unsanctioned by most game providers
In 2018, Valve issued a cease and desist order to OPSkins, which was one of the largest P2P custodial services
for conducting trades on the secondary trading of items. Valve has also deactivated all accounts related to
the trades. While Valve has not issued an oﬃcial reason for the shutdown, it is very likely that the reasoning
for the shutdown from Valve is to drive skin sales to the Steam Community Market instead of third-party
platforms. Valve has since undertaken additional measures to limit the ability to send items from various
loot boxes to further restrict the ability of gamers and to enhance their own proﬁtability. Some of these
measures include limiting the ability of users to transfer items more than once and to restrict the transfer
of items for a certain period of time after the items are transferred.
We believe that such actions undertaken by game providers restrict the ability of users to have full control
over their in-game items which they have purchased and intend to create TriumphX to enable the
transaction of such secondary market trading. To align the economic interest of game service providers and
the users, game service providers such as Valve will be able to become a strategic partner of TriumphX to
gain proﬁts from all transactions conducted on the blockchain platform and restrict such third parties from
proﬁting at the expense of the game service provider.

9

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Vision
TriumphX is a decentralised exchange for the trading of in-game items that exists as NFTs. Our goal is to
create a highly liquid decentralised market that enables users to trade NFT tokens that exist across various
blockchains with the highest security and transparency. To achieve this, TriumphX will be integrated with
multiple decentralised exchanges to facilitate the deep liquidity of NFT tokens. The TRIX token will
complement the TriumphX ecosystem by creating a sustainable token economy through game theory and
the TriumphX blockchain will be designed with scalability, interoperability and achieve ﬁnality in
transactions in the most secure and transparent manner. It is designed to complement the rapid growth of
gaming and Esports to provide gamers with the quality of services that they deserve.

10

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

TriumphX
Blockchain Technology
Blockchain Architecture

Services
Fee | Price Decision | TDI | PoO | P2P

Protocol Layer
Kabocha Protocol | TRIX Wallet

Base Layer
TSCE | Machine Learning

Blockchain Layer
Polkadot Parachain built using Substrate

11

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

1. Blockchain Layer
Considering transparency, stability, security, and scalability, TriumphX will be built on the Polkadot network
as a parachain. Polkadot enables interoperability and scalability by allowing specialized blockchains to
communicate with each other in a secure, trust-free environment. Through the parallelized model of
Polkadot, TriumphX will be built as a parachain that can compile into WASM and be connected to the
Polkadot network.
The Polkadot Relay Chain does not implement smart contracts natively. However, it's possible for parachains
to enable smart contract functionality and then beneﬁt from the security and interoperability features of
Polkadot. This is the core reason for building TriumphX as a parachain due to the ability to contain our own
runtime logic that beneﬁt from the shared security and the cross-chain messaging provided by the Polkadot
Relay Chain. With the high degree of ﬂexibility and customization, TriumphX will be able to customize the
chain according to the commercial needs of partners within the network.
TriumphX will be developed using Substrate Core, which grants us the ability to design the entire runtime
and implement it from scratch.

Triumphx Council Reward system
Stability is the most important factor of the TriumphX platform services. In this scenario, validators would
exert their utmost eﬀort on the node operation to maintain the stability of their business.
In the initial stage of the blockchain, few business opportunities would be available since the token
economy has not been activated. Therefore, we plan to recruit council members who can form stable
blockchain networks for an appropriate level of compensation. The initial council members will receive an
annual compensation of 5% of the amount of trust for a period of time needed to stabilize their businesses.
Such compensation plans will remain eﬀective until 101 companies are registered as validators.
The council members also act as a form of governance for the TriumphX blockchain and will have the ability
to vote on key decisions concerning the TriumphX blockchain such as the fees on the platform.

Creating a Sustainable Decentralised Governance Model
As we expect centralized exchanges to hold signiﬁcant sums of tokens, safeguards will be put in place to
ensure that exchanges are barred from the governance process and voting process to prevent manipulation
of the network in the interest of the exchanges using tokens which are not owned by themselves. These
safeguards include identiﬁcation on the blockchain and active governance from the validators to bar
addresses that have been identiﬁed as exchange addresses on the network.

12

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

At the start, there shall be two validators, managed by the creators of TriumphX. As time goes by, more
validators will be opened, up to a total of 101 validators. Subject to future governance changes by the 101
validators, the number of seats may be further expanded.
Each validator term lasts for a period of 12 months, and after the initial 12 month period, all validators,
including the initial two seats controlled by the founders, will be put up for voting by the network users. This
ensures true decentralization of the network.
In the long-term, there may be additional DAOs being created on the TriumphX blockchain to satiate the
need for greater coordination outside of the initial validator setup. These DAOs can be governed by various
decision-making processes such as simple 1-person-1-vote mechanism, delegated voting, 1-token-1-vote, or
other more complex mechanisms.

Election of Validators
Users will need to signal (by time-locking their TRIX tokens to vote for certain decisions on governance of
the TriumphX blockchain). These tokens will not be spent and will be returned to the voters after a certain
period of time.

Council
Member
Applicants

Successfully voted as Council Members

No votes, rejected

Smart contract
signaling using
TRIX tokens

TRIX Tokens
Owners

13

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

2. Base Layer
It is necessary to extend the basic functions of the blockchain to connect the blockchain with real-world
services, maintain the stability of the mainnet, and conﬁgure blockchain services. The base layer of the
TriumphX platform consists of functions necessary to fulﬁl such requirements.

TSCE (TriumphX Smart Contract Extension)
Extended functions are required to use smart contracts on the blockchain for contracts of real-world
service. TriumphX provides TSCE (TriumphX Smart Contract Extension), which adds TriumphX's own
extension to the existing Substrate API.
Real-life contracts require a variety of information, such as the coin price of exchanges, stock price,
exchange rate, weather information, and a random number generator used in games or lotteries. When
retrieving data from outside the blockchain, it is necessary to check the correctness of the information and
thoroughly make exceptions when the information is deemed to be incorrect. TSCE implements Oracle
functions in a decentralized way.
On the blockchain, it is not always possible to check the execution time of the contract due to resource
issues. Thus when a scheduled execution is required, it cannot be implemented only with a smart contract.
TSCE, like Oracle, implements the scheduled execution function in a decentralized manner.
TSCE plans to create a library of functions with scalability in mind. In the process, we will also focus on the
eﬀorts to prevent hacking.

Machine Learning
Machine learning and blockchain may seem to have no common ground, but both are rapidly evolving
technologies, and will play key roles in the business platforms in the future. While designing the TriumphX
platform, we have learned that we need to actively adopt the latest machine learning techniques. Machine
learning will play crucial roles in various aspects of TriumphX, such as anomaly detection to spot external
attacks, and pricing system to quickly determine the appropriate fee and price.

14

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

3. Protocol Layer
The TriumphX platform provides decentralized protocol called ‘Kabocha’ that can be easily extended and
connected to enable eﬀortless creation of decentralized applications (DApps). This protocol is managed by
TSCE and API. The TriumphX platform manages the dependency of API libraries and provides a convenient
development environment. Because the Kabocha protocol is designed as an open platform, anyone can
connect to TriumphX. Documentation and tutorials for the Kabocha Protocol and all APIs will be released on
GitHub in line with the testnet release schedule

P2P
Service Structure

Base

Escrow

Price Decision

PoO

PG

TDI

Reputation
Kabocha Protocol
Protocol Layer
Kabocha Protocol

TRIX Wallet

TRIX Wallet
A dedicated wallet is required to obtain TDI or mutual evaluation information of the TriumphX platform.
While the wallet itself is not a decentralized protocol-based service, it is necessary for the TriumphX
platform to provide an integrated service. Wallets needed to be protected with the highest level of security
in the decentralized blockchain technology. The source code of the wallet will be released as an open source
and will be continuously audited for security issues.

15

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Services
The services provided by TriumphX are optimized for general DApp development. Services will be constantly
updated and added.

1. Fee Service
The fee for all services on the TriumphX platform is paid with TRIX tokens, so the fee module is included in
all services. Overly high fees would make the users uneasy, while too low fees would cause problems in
system operation. The TriumphX platform implements machine learning to monitor and determine the
optimal fee to create a healthy blockchain community. Fee standards and the charging process will be
transparently disclosed in a decentralized way.

2. Escrow Service
A contract itself can be implemented as a smart contract on the blockchain. However, an extended smart
contract is required to specify an escrow at the beginning of the contract and release the escrow at the
termination of the contract . The TriumphX platform implements such functions using TSCE, enabling users
to tokenize their in-game digital items.

3. TriumphX Digital Identity (TDI) Service
KYC (Know your customer), the process of verifying the user's identity, has become a basic requirement on
most of the public blockchain services, including ICOs. The KYC process varies from country to country, and
services provided vary depending on the level of veriﬁcation. This process is complex and time consuming,
taking up to weeks or longer for completion. Due to the issues of GDPR, careful attention must be paid to
the personal information collected.
TriumphX platform provides strong KYC for security and privacy protection through TDI service, and the
information registered through TDI can be used simultaneously for all services on the TriumphX platform.
Each user that has completed their KYC will receive an NFT into their wallet, identifying their wallets and
accounts that are associated with the user for seamless capabilities in integrating across diﬀerent
blockchain networks.

4. PoO Service
Proof-of-Ownership (PoO) is a function that electronically proves one’s ownership of their assets, which is
essential for online spot trading. It is necessary to cooperate with a publicly trusted organization to
implement PoO. Also, the organization that handles PoO is handled must go through a high level of security
and audit similar to that of ﬁnancial institutions. Therefore, it is very challenging for general users to
implement the PoO function. On the TriumphX platform, PoO will be implemented in conjunction with
credible institutions for each asset.

16

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

5. P2P Transaction Decision Service
P2P trading is a method of determining the price between the buyer and seller. For this function, we need
an algorithm that accurately and quickly establishes exchanges in which both sides can beneﬁt. The
TriumphX platform provides services for all types of multi-chain based P2P transactions.

P2P Automated Market Maker
TriumphX adopts an innovation popularised by Decentralised Finance (DeFi).
Through the use of an automated market maker (AMM), we are able to quickly facilitate the trading of NFTs
that belong to the same subset (i.e. NFTs that represent the same items). The AMM will require liquidity to
be provided by the gamers who will be rewarded in TRIX tokens for the liquidity that is provided for price
discovery.
An AMM does not have any buy/sell order book. Instead both sides of trades are pre-funded on-chain by
liquidity pools. Liquidity pools allow users to seamlessly switch between tokens on-chain in a completely
decentralized and non-custodial manner simply by connecting their cryptocurrency wallets to the liquidity
pool. Liquidity providers are compensated for their services in providing liquidity via trading fees based on
the percentage of their contribution to the pool.

1. Send pre-deﬁned ratio
of TRIX tokens and NFT
tokens into the pool.

Liquidity Providers
3. Liquidity Providers are
paid a portion of feeds
collected by Liquidity Pool
(decided by council members).

2. Traders buy NFT/TRIX
using TRIX/NFT correspondingly,
ﬁlled by AMM using Liquidity Pool.

Liquidity Pool

Liquidity Providers

TriumphX will use the Constant Product Market Maker (CPMM) model based on the function x*y=k which
establishes a range of prices for two tokens according to the available quantities (liquidity) of each token. To
demonstrate how a CPMM model works, when the supply of token X increases, the token supply of Y must
decrease, and vice-versa, to maintain the constant product K. When plotted, the result is a hyperbola where
liquidity is always available, but at increasingly higher prices that approach inﬁnity at both ends.

17

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

The Constant Products Mechanism in Action
1,600.000
1,400.000
Pool of TRIX

1,200.000
1,000.000

Larger sale of NFT yield
samller incremental amount
of TRIX, indicating that price
of NFT has increased

800.000
600.000
400.000
200.000
0.000
0.000

5.000

10.000

15.000 20.000 25.000 30.000 35.000
Pool of NFTs

6. Pricing Service
P2P transactions are established when there are two-party transactions. However, in real-world
transactions, trading based on ﬁxed price is more common. When there are enough P2P transactions for
internal processing, the P2P transaction decision service is suﬃcient. On the other hand, when the
transaction is concentrated on one side, issues of pricing and liquidity for cashing arises.
While the spot and ﬁat trading is ﬁxed, the coin-ﬁat exchange is determined by the transaction volume,
price, and ﬂuctuation of the coin. In the case of minor coins, the small trading volume and the high volatility
makes large spread inevitable. However, if the spread becomes too large, customers would not want to
trade. The TriumphX platform provides a real-time pricing service using machine learning to solve this
problem.

7. Payment Gateway (PG) Service
PG requires processing of large volumes of microtransactions of transactions. In this case, stability and
speed is the most important factor, since users would not use the system if payment processing is delayed.
The slow processing speed and lack of scalability of Bitcoin is arguably one of the core reasons why it has not
been adopted as a method of payment. On the TriumphX platform, a stable PG service is implemented using
multi-chain.

18

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Product Features
Creation of Non-Fungible
Tokens for Trading
Through TriumphX, gamers are able to tokenize
Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) that represent the
unique in-game items that they own. To tokenize
these NFTs, gamers will be required to stake a small
amount of TRIX tokens corresponding to a proportion
of the in-game item’s value. An API will validate the
ownership of the items held by these users hence it is
possible for the users to create a NFT of in-game
items that have limited transferability as the item
does not ever have to leave their inventory.
The item can also continue to be used while it is being
actively traded among users until a buyer redeems
the item. Through the same API and through smart
contract capabilities within the TriumphX blockchain,
the item will be automatically transferred to the
buyer and the staked TRIX tokens will be released
back to the seller.

In the event that there is a rapid change in value of
the NFT or in the value of the staked TRIX token such
that there is insuﬃcient collateral to tokenize the
in-game item, the seller will need to put up additional
collateral otherwise the NFT will be taken to have
been repurchased and redeemed by the seller, and
the buyer will receive the staked TRIX token as
payment. This is considered to be a liquidation of the
seller, and upon liquidation, the seller will also have to
pay an additional fee of 2% of the purchase value
which is sent into an insurance fund on the TriumphX
blockchain as a safeguard against potential slippage
of costs. This insurance fund is fully governed by
smart contract capabilities and provides reassurance
for buyers of the NFTs that the value of their assets
will be fully backed and redeemable for the actual
value of the items.

TDI Module
P2P trading is enabled
between TRIX and NFT tokens
via the TriumphX Platform
through smart contract
1. Submit KYC docs
to receive KYC NFT
for veriﬁcation.

Sellers

3. Submit orders to
sell NFT NFT is

3. Submit orders to
buy NFT TRIX is

transferred once
orders are matched.

transferred once
orders are matched.

2. Tokenize in-game
items by staking TRIX
tokens to receive NFT.

Games

(that facilitate trading)

19

TriumphX Platform
5. Staked TRIX tokens are
returned to the Seller once the
NFT is redeemed and in-game
intem is sent from Seller to Buyer

Buyers

4. Redeem in-game items by
sending NFT into the game
and registering with account.

Games

(that facilitate trading)

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

ERC-1155 Token Standard
Adoption And Future NFTs
NFTs will exist as ERC-1155 tokens on the Ethereum
blockchain in the initial stages and future token
standards that are backward compatible with the
ERC-1155 token standard will be implemented to
ensure interoperability across all blockchains within
the TriumphX network.
ERC-1155 token standard was selected as it is able to
manage multiple token types within a single deployed
contract. For example, a combination of fungible
tokens, non-fungible tokens or even semi-fungible
tokens can be created. For game developers,
adopting the ERC-20 or ERC-721 standard would
require the creation of thousands of unique smart
contracts, each representing a unique in-game item.
The ERC-1155 standard would enable each game to
operate on a single smart contract. Transaction fees
may also be lower as multiple token types can be
swapped at once.

Aggregated Public Database on NFTs
While the in-game items that have been tokenized
exist as NFTs on the blockchain, these NFTs can still be
aggregated under the same subset of items. For
example, two “Legendary Dragon Sword” tokenized
on TriumphX exist as two unique NFTs, but the
blockchain recognizes these two NFTs as the same
item, hence can be used interchangeably with the
same price.
The key objective of having these items existing as
NFTs is to enable tracing of ownership of the items
such that when it is redeemed by the buyer, the
blockchain will know which is the seller of the item
and can conduct the transfers between the two
accounts accurately.
Because of this ability to recognize diﬀerent NFTs as
representation of the same item, the TriumphX
Explorer is able to group these items together to
state useful statistics such as the total number of

20

items tokenized and in existence on the blockchain,
the total historical traded price of such items, the
number of items owned by each user to identify if
there is hoarding of items and more.

Interoperability Across
Diﬀerent Blockchains
TriumphX has a concrete plan for achieving
interoperability through Polkadot, a cross-chain
bridging network that Parity is developing in
partnership with Substrate. Through the connection
with Polkadot, TriumphX will have true
interoperability with all blockchains in the Polkadot
network and cross-blockchain transfers of any type of
data or asset can be accomplished. This increases
liquidity of NFTs and TRIX tokens as it increases access
to the NFTs by the communities across a large
number of blockchains.
For high-stakes transfers and trading, users may opt
to have ﬁnality of their transactions occurring on a
time-tested network such as Ethereum which has
high security but also higher costs and longer time
taken for ﬁnality onchain. Alternatively, if lower cost
of transactions and speed is of essence for the user, a
diﬀerent blockchain such as EOS can be used by the
user for quicker conﬁrmation time. It is also possible
for users to leverage on more complex strategies such
as obtaining speed via an initial EOS transaction, and
automatically ﬁnalizing the transaction on Ethereum
after a pre-deﬁned period of time helping users
manage the trade-oﬀs between transaction costs of
short term trading (e.g. scalping/swing trading of
NFTs) while ensuring security for items that are held
as a store of value by the users.
In the future, if there are additional networks capable
of enabling cross-chain transferability and
interoperability, TriumphX can be further integrated
with these networks to further increase the
cross-chain transferability of NFTs ensuring that
TriumphX blockchain is future proofed regardless of
how new platforms are developed and forward
compatibility of the NFTs with blockchain networks
that have yet to exist.

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Alignment of Economic Interest
with Game Service Providers
Game Service Providers are usually less receptive to
leverage on blockchain technology to tokenize their
in-game items into NFTs. A key reason for this is
because it limits proﬁtability of their games if
alternative secondary markets are used, limiting the
ability of these in-game service providers to earn
revenue from secondary market trading within their
own platform or that it limits primary market
purchase of new in-game items directly using ﬁat
currencies.
While it is a rational decision to protect their revenue
stream, it also holds back the community of gamers
and the potential for these game service providers to
grow their future revenue streams. Gamers who have
purchased these in-game items using cash should
have full control of their items as a fundamental right.
Gamers are also more likely to purchase in-game
items and loot boxes directly from the game service
providers if they know that their items have resale
value on the secondary markets. Combined, these
factors can lead to a signiﬁcantly larger revenue
stream for the game service providers.

Incentive for Game Service Providers
To ensure that the tokenization of in-game items does
not cannibalize their own revenue stream, TriumphX
ecosystem allows for game service providers to stake
TRIX tokens and to verify to the TRIX validators of
their identity to gain a portion of proﬁts that are
made from the secondary trading of NFTs on the
TriumphX blockchain. This alignment of interest
expands the entire economic pie for both gamers and
game service providers, leading to economic beneﬁts
reaped for both stakeholders. To be able to earn such
fees, the Game Service Provider have to make their
games available on the blockchain in addition to
staking.

21

As a start to encourage adoption, TRIX will provide
new Game Service Providers with some ecosystem
tokens on their staked tokens to further incentivize
Game Service Providers to build their game on the
blockchain.

Gamers’ Community Engagement
The popularity of games has resulted in the growth of
a vibrant gaming community. These communities
frequently exist on discussion boards such as Reddit
or informal wiki pages created by the gamers
themselves, oﬀering useful discussion, feedback and
guides for new gamers. The presence of such
communities is frequently the cause of success of the
games themselves.
To further increase engagement of games with the
vibrant gaming community, game service providers
will be able to create unique Community Tokens (CT)
which exist as fungible utility tokens on the TriumphX
blockchain, representing their game. These CTs can be
used as rewards to gamers for their activity and
engagement within the community and can also be
traded for money on the secondary markets. Gamers
with a large number of CTs can redeem these CTs for
in-game items, used for priority access to tournament
tickets, limited edition merchandise or even to vote
for new features to be included into the game. The
possibilities are limitless and can be determined by
the game service providers themselves.

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

TRIX Token Economy
Utility of token

1. As a currency for P2P transaction on the decentralised exchange (trading of items)
2. To pay for transaction fees (discounted fees using TRIX)
3. Staking by game companies to enter into the TriumphX ecosystem for a share of proﬁts made from
the transactions occurring on TriumphX marketplace
4. Governance – signalling and voting for changes to the TriumphX blockchain

Token distribution
Private sale investors

30%

3,000,000,000 TRIX

Ecosystem Fund

30%

3,000,000,000 TRIX

Reserves

20%

2,000,000,000 TRIX

Team & Advisors

10%

1,000,000,000 TRIX

Strategic Partnerships

5%

500,000,000 TRIX

Marketing

5%

500,000,000 TRIX

Token supply
Total supply: 10,000,000,000 TRIX tokens

22

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

TRIX Valuation
Given that the total supply of TRIX is ﬁxed, the core factors inﬂuencing the network value of TRIX is based
solely on demand drivers. The fundamental demand driver of TRIX is through liquidity demands from the
P2P trading of in-game items that have been tokenized on TriumphX blockchain.

SS TRIX * V TRIX = P TRIX * GMV T
Where,

SS TRIX

represents the total supply of TRIX tokens which is a constant at 10,000,000,000 TRIX tokens

V TRIX

represents the velocity of TRIX tokens

P TRIX

represents the price of TRIX tokens

GMV T

represents the total Gross Merchandise Value of in-game items being traded P2P on TriumphX

Through the equation above, the core driver of the price of TRIX token would result from the Gross
Merchandise Value of all transactions that occur on the TriumphX blockchain. The greater the size of each
transaction and larger volume of trading that arises from deep liquidity of P2P trading, we can expect the
price of TRIX token to increase, ceteris paribus.

Another key driver of the price of TRIX token is based on the velocity of TRIX token. As a payment token, the
velocity of TRIX token is expected to be higher at the start when the ecosystem is less mature. However,
with time and as more companies onboard with TriumphX to become validators, there will be an increase in
TRIX tokens being used for staking to gain beneﬁts from being an ecosystem partner. Additionally, as
trading volume increases, the sellers of NFTs will need to stake more tokens as collateral to tokenize their
in-game items for trading. With an increase in trading volume and liquidity, more TRIX tokens will be needed
to enable the trading, further reducing the velocity of TRIX tokens and driving up the price of TRIX tokens,
ceteris paribus.

23

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Partnerships
Ekkorr Inc.

Ekkorr is a game development company that was founded in September 2011 in Korea. Most members are
the experts that have ten years of the development experience over. They have been developing and
operating the total of nine games including Endless Frontier, Tiny Conquerors etc. The development team
has a deep understanding of the operation of games through their seven-year experience in launching
several successful titles.

Through the partnership with Ekkorr, we expect that there will be a lot more DApps and game service
providers onboarding with the collaboration to launch games on the TriumphX Blockchain. The founder of
Ekkorr, Shin Myung-yong, who is popular in Korean game development community, intends to build his next
game on the TriumphX platform. The new game is titled “Endless Defence” and will be designed to be
integrated with TriumphX.
Due to the global nature of gaming where users are located globally, there have been a lot of
inconveniences such as diﬀerent currency rates when trading items, however, through TRIX, you can trade
items more eﬃciently and conveniently.

24

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Endless Frontier

Endless Frontier Global IP achieves over 30M accumulated downloads, and over 70B KRW (58M USD) in
accumulated sales
- Easy IP access with a global fandom base
- Distinguished SNS functionalities with emojis, auto translation, mini-games, and etc.
- Multilingual service for global market
- Intuitive UX for easy participation

iOS

Android

22%

23%
16%

Korea

<EF Downloads by OS>

25

US

11%
Japan

7%
China

6%
Taiwan

Others

<EF players by country>

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Metal Slug Inﬁnity

Popular arcade game METAL SLUG is back as an IDLE RPG!
Battles with unique characters and combat vehicles are now at your ﬁngertips!
All the characters and Slugs from the Metal Slug franchise are here!
- MARCO, TARMA, ERI, and FIO from previous Metal Slug games
- Defend against waves of Rebels, Guerrillas, Aliens, Mummies, and Zombies.
- Don't forget about P.O.W, they'll repay you with powerful weapons if you save them

The game has more than 1,000,000+ downloads on the Google App store with an average rating of 3.9
stars based on a total of 30,000+ reviews.

26

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Endless Frontier Defence

Endless Frontier Defence is a new concept for idle defence RPG games using intellectual property from the
popular Endless Frontier!
- Early game: Defend against incoming waves of enemies that grows stronger!
- Mid game: Build your kingdom and recruit legendary heroes that can level up to become stronger, and
secure additional territories to build your kingdom’s economy!
- Late game: Massive PvP environment against other players and strategize on how you can defend your
kingdom while attacking other players for resources!

Endless Frontier Defence builds upon the years of experience that we have accumulated at EKKORR and our
success at building games such as Endless Frontier with more than 30million downloads.
The game is designed with blockchain integration in mind and we have created a sustainable and viable
economic system for in-game items that can be attained in the game, while maintaining a fun and diverse
gaming experience with content such as campaigns, exploration, tower of challenges, arena battles,
invasions, hall of heroes and much more!
The game is also designed to be social with ease of communication among players to facilitate community
building and trading of items.

27

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Korea Mobile Game Association (KMGA)
and Korea Blockchain Contents Association (KBCCA)
TriumphX has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with KMGA and KBCCA on
29 July 2020.
The purpose of the MoU is to cooperate for the successful launch of the TriumphX
blockchain-based decentralised P2P trading exchange for the trading of in-game items
that has been tokenized on the blockchain.
The signed MoU also aims to popularize the use of blockchain-based games and to
accelerate the commercialization of such games.

28

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Team Members and Advisor
Myungyong Shin - Co-Founder
•
•
•
•
•

B.S. in Computer Engineering, KAIST (Korea)
M.A. in Seoul Nat’l Univ.
CEO, Ekkorr Co., Ltd.
Recipient of Presidential Award for Export in Game Industry
Idle Game “Endless Frontier” Developer

Young-Han Byeon - Co-Founder
•
•
•
•
•

B.S. in Computer Engineering, Seoul Nat’l Univ. (Korea)
Vice President, EF Games
Analyst, Daewoo Securities
Investment Examiner, Next Venture Investment
Investment director, Platinum Technology Investment

Young- il Moon - Co-Founder
• TGXC Founder

Jae-woong Shim - Co-Founder
• TGXC Founder

29

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Soohyung Lee - CEO
•
•
•
•
•
•

Graduate School of Journalism and Mass Communication, Yonsei University
Chief Director, E-business Dept., Daum Communication
CEO at Tour Express
Founder and CEO, Namu Communications
Center Head in Busan and Kyungnam, Kakao
3rd President of Korea Association for Social Contents’ Development (KASCO)

Richard Lee - Head Manager
•
•
•
•

Graduate School of Economics, Yonsei Univ.
Asset Management, Hana Futures
Derivative Management Team 1, Hana Financial Investment Co., Ltd.
Strategic Business, Hanhwa Investment & Securities

Seong-uk Choi (ZEUS) - Project Manager
• CEO, Cowincomfunny Co., Ltd.
• Developed HFT-DMA trading algorithm
• In charge of COINZEUS development

Yong-gil Ham (ZEUS) - Development Team Manager
•
•
•
•

30

CTO, Cowincomfunny Co., Ltd.
Developed HealthCare Embedded Core
Developed SWs for trading ﬁrms
In charge of COINZEUS backend

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Phil-jong Kim (ZEUS) - Frontend Developer
•
•
•
•

CEO, ENFactory
Developed solar power generation system
Developed SWs for trading ﬁrms
Developed COINZEUS front

Nam-kyu Choi (ZEUS) - Engineer

• Developed HealthCare Embedded Core
• Developed SWs for trading ﬁrms
• Developed front end of COINZEUS

Sung-hee Noh - Crypto Planning Team Manager

• Managed advanced IT convergence game projects at KOCCA
(The Korea Creative Content Agency)
• Managed convergence smart content projects at NIPA
(National IT Industry Promotion Agency of Korea)
• DGE platform planning

Candice Kim - Digital Marketing Head

• B. A. in Visual Communication Design, Dankook Univ., Korea
• Digital marketing planning and design for company SNS and blog
• Web designer at Creative Comms Co., Ltd.

31

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Yu-mi Oh - Main Web Designer

• Design multiple token branding and crypto exchange
and application interfaces
• BX/UIUX Designer (present)

Hye soo Jang - Web Designer

• DH International Web designer
• TGEX Web/BX Designer (present)

Ahreum Han - Crypto Planning Team Assistant Manager
• Part of the domestic overseas sales department
• In charge of English Translation at DGE (present)

Hyeryeong Li - Crypto Planning Team Assistant Manager
• Japan Tezukayama University BA graduate
• Shanghai Toyota-Boshoku Sales/Operation Planning Division
• In charge of Japanese / Chinese Translation at DGE (present)

32

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Sung-ik Hwang - Advisor
•
•
•
•
•
•

President, Korea Mobile Game Association (present)
President, Korea Blockchain Contents Association (present)
Council Head, Busan Indie Connect Festival, (present)
Co-head, National Assembly Korea Game Forum (present)
Head, Indiecraft KGF (present)
Advisor, Sinwon Law Firm (present)

Hoon Baik - Advisor

• Jim Beam Chicago HQ, Triumph Motorcycle UK, Publicis One,
Philip Morris International and Hyundai Motor Company
Global Company Design Project
• Hyundai Motors Genesis branding
• Responsible for graphic design and marketing production
at Digital Gold Exchange

Nitesh Thakur - Marketing Advisor

33

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Team Members and Advisor
Se-won Yun - Game Producer
•
•
•
•
•

B.S. in Computing, KAIST (Korea)
CTO, Ekkorr Co., Ltd.
Developed and operating Endless Frontier
Developed and operating Tiny Conqueror
Developed and operating Puzzle Fantasy

Hyeon-Yong Choe - Game Producer
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

B.S. College of Engineering, Seoul Nat’l Univ. (Korea)
M. A. College of Engineering, Seoul Nat’l Univ. (Korea)
Producer, Ekkorr Co., Ltd.
Developed Endless Frontier
Developed TouchTag & Signage Platform
Developed Tiny Conqueror
Developed Smart TV motion sensing 3D game

Ji-Hun Jeon - Game Producer

• B.S. in Industrial Management, KAIST
• Developed Endless Frontier
• Developed and operating Metal Slug Inﬁnity

Jae-Ha Choe - Game Producer
•
•
•
•

34

B.S. in Electrical Engineering, KAIST (Korea)
Developed and operating Endless Frontier
Developed and operating Tiny Conqueror
Developed and operating Puzzle Fantasy

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

Hong-Seok Choe - Game Producer
•
•
•
•
•
•

B.S. in Computer Engineering, Seoul Nat’l Univ. (Korea)
Ekkorr Co., Ltd. (present)
NCSoft (previous)
Developed V4
Developed Tale Seeker
Developed Lineage II

Sang-Won Jeong - Game Producer
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

35

B.S. in Mechanial and Aerospace Engineering, Seoul Nat’l Univ.
B.A. in Business Management, Seoul Nat’l Univ.
Ekkorr Co. Ltd. (present)
Gameville (previous)
Developed <Autopuzzle Defense>
Business operation of <Grimm Notes>
Investment Management of IDLE Idea Factory Co., Ltd.

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

triumphx.io
Suite 3, Global Village, Jivan’s Complex,
Mont Fleuri, Mahe Seychelles
help@triumphx.io

©2020 - White Paper - TriumphX - All Rights Reserved

