TTC

TTC
A Blockchain Solution for Mass Adoption
and A Sustainable Token Economy Model

V2.0

TTC

Disclaimer
TTC Foundation (and together with its affiliates, the TTC
Group) had in March 2018 created and developed interim
ERC-20 Standard-compliant cryptographic tokens (TTC
Interim Tokens) associated with initial phase of the TTC
Platform blockchain project that was under development by
the TTC Group. Certain TTC Interim Tokens had been sold
and distributed via various tranches of sale between March
and May 2018 (TTC Interim Token Sale). Further details of
the TTC protocol and the TTC Interim Token Sale are
contained in the TTC protocol Whitepaper accessible at
https://d1u6eqogwsdivn.cloudfront.net/whitepaper_v1/
TTC_Whitepaper_EN.pdf.
Following the close of the initial phase of TTC Platform and
in connection with the launch of the TTC Platform Mainnet,
the TTC Group will be undertaking the Launch Token Swap
pursuant to which the TTC Interim Tokens will be swappable
for TTC Blockchain native cryptographic tokens known as
TTC Coins and TST-20 Standard compliant cryptographic
tokens known as Acorn Tokens that are associated with TTC
Platform. Please refer to this Whitepaper for further details
on the Launch Token Swap, as well as the functions of each
of the TTC Coins and Acorn Tokens.
The focus of this Whitepaper is on the TTC Mainnet project
and the Launch Token Swap. You may have received, been

TTC

in possession of or perused this Whitepaper, which contains
additional important (related) information about the TTC
Mainnet project and the Launch Token Swap, including the
TTC Platform, TTC Coins, Acorn Protocol, and the Acorn
Tokens (each as defined herein) and their functions. The
TTC Group may publish such other documents (collectively
with the Whitepaper, the Project Documents) in relation to
the TTC Mainnet project and the Launch Token Swap. If so,
such Project Documents are intended to be read in
conjunction with one another for the purpose of the TTC
Mainnet project and the Launch Token Swap. All Project
Documents are subject to all disclaimers, restrictions,
notices, and legal provisions contained in this Whitepaper.
For the avoidance of doubt, the TTC Group is not, and will
not be, offering the TTC Coins and/or the Acorn Tokens for
sale to any persons or in any jurisdictions. This Whitepaper,
and such other Project Documents that may be published
by the TTC Group, is only intended for, made to or directed
at, persons who are either existing or future holders of the
(a) TTC Interim Tokens, (b) the TTC Coins, and (c) the
Acorn Tokens. This Whitepaper is not, is not intended to be,
and should not be construed to be, a prospectus or offer
document of any sort and is not intended to and should not
be construed to constitute an offer of shares or securities of
any form, units in a business trust, units in a collective
investment scheme or any other form of investment, or a
solicitation for any form of investment in any jurisdiction.
No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of
the information set out in this Whitepaper. This Whitepaper
has not been registered with any regulatory authority in
any jurisdiction.

TTC

No TTC Coin or Acorn Token should be construed,
interpreted, classified or treated as enabling, or according
any opportunity to its holders to participate in or receive
profits, income, or other payments or returns arising from
or in connection with any member of the TTC Group, the
TTC Platform, the TTC Coins, the Acorn Protocol, or the
Acorn Tokens, or to receive sums paid out of such profits,
income, or other payments or returns.

TTC

Abstract
The TTC blockchain platform (TTC Platform) is a complete
blockchain solution offering improved performance,
scalability and security. It aims to tackle the problems of
current blockchain technologies, especially to support large
transactions and a variety of possible use cases. Multi-tier
Byzantine Fault Tolerant-Delegated Proof of Stake (BFTDPoS), an optimized consensus mechanism, ensures high
transaction speed. A master/slave network combination
provides high security and scalability.
The TTC Coin (as defined in this Whitepaper) facilitates
asset transactions, the deployment of smart contracts, and
purchase of resources in addition to other functions. TTC
Connect, a universal wallet, bridges the gap between users
and TTC. Users can exchange TTC Coins with other tokens
on the TTC Decentralized Exchange (TTC DEX), as well as
conduct payments with TTC Pay, an independent payment
solution based on the TTC Platform.
The Acorn Token (ACN) is a token based on the TTC
Platform which is used with the Acorn Protocol, a
decentralized and incentivized social networking protocol.
The Acorn Protocol is committed to returning value to
individual users through a blockchain-driven, tokenized
incentive mechanism. The Acorn Rewards Engine will
incentivize users who make contributions on social

TTC

Decentralized Applications (DAPPs). All types of social
network services are welcome to join the Acorn Alliance,
including but not limited to content sharing platforms,
online forums, and social commercial services.

TTC

Contents
01 Background
• Background….……………………………………………………………….2

02 Infrastructure
• Consensus (Multi-tier BFT-DPoS)….……………………………..7
• Master/Slave Network……..……………………………..……….….14
• Payment Solution….………………..……………………………………16

03 Token Economy
• Token Economy……….……………………….……….……….…………20
• TTC Allocation……….………………………….……….……….…………21
• Tokens on TTC Platform……..…………….……….……….…………24

04 TTC Foundation
• TTC Foundation……..…………….……….….….….….…….…………26

05 Acorn Protocol
• Acorn Protocol….………………….………….…….…….…….…….….28

TTC

• Decentralized Social Networks….………………….………….….29
• Acorn Rewards Engine…..….………..…..……….….………….….32
• Use Cases…..….………..…..……..……..……….….………….….….34
• Acorn Ad Network………..…………..………….…………………..…36
• Acorn Alliance.….………………..…………………………………………37

06 Acorn Rewards Engine
• Acorn Rewards Engine.………………………………………………….39
• Daily DAPP Rewards Pool (Edapp) for each DAPP.………….41
• Daily Developer Rewards (Rdev)…………………………………….43
• Daily User Rewards (Ruser)…………………………………………….44

07 Summary
• Summary…..….……………………….………………………………………50
Appendix
• Appendix…..….………………………………………………….……………53

01
Background

TTC

Background
In recent years, blockchain technology has gained traction
in the internet technology industry. Simply put, a
blockchain is a digital ledger that is used to record
transactions involving multiple parties. It is decentralized
and distributed. Notably, because the record cannot be
altered retroactively without the alteration of all subsequent
information in collusion with the entire network, blockchain
technology is considered to be secure (or “immutable”) by
design. This makes blockchains suitable for keeping track of
events, medical information, financial transactions, and
other types of record keeping.
In technical terms, a blockchain is a distributed computing
system that has achieved “decentralized consensus.” This
means that there is no central authority that determines
how and what information gets added to the ledger. The
protocol underlying a blockchain is what allows participants
on the network to reach a consensus about how to add new
information, even when members cannot trust one another.
This cutting-edge technology has been quickly adopted by
the fields of finance and insurance, but for most laypersons,
digital assets are mostly regarded to be financial
investments, and not a form of currency for practical use in
everyday life. This is one of several reasons that has limited
the expansion of blockchain technology.

2

TTC

One of the most well-known blockchain-based technologies
is the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, which has gradually become
more accepted as a payment method in practice. Despite its
popularity, Bitcoin use is still not commonplace. This is
partially due to Bitcoin’s low transaction speed and slow
adoption by the public, attributed to a lack of conceptual
understanding about cryptocurrencies.
These two hurdles—low transaction speed and latent
adoption by the general public—must be addressed in order
for the use of blockchains to expand. Unlike Bitcoin, most
other digital assets are far from being accepted as a
practical payment method and remain the domain of the
specialists and technology enthusiasts.

Low Transaction Speed
At its core, a blockchain network is still a network. Its main
function is to record and transfer data from one point to
another. Transactions Per Second (TPS) is the term used to
describe the transaction rate of a network. Bitcoin has a
transaction processing capacity of 10 TPS, while Ethereum
is able to handle transaction speeds of up to 15 TPS. In
some extreme documented cases, it took several hours for
a Bitcoin transaction to be confirmed.
Scaling TPS has been an important area of research for the
blockchain industry. Recent developments have led to the
invention of new consensus algorithms, with a more
efficient decision making system that results in higher TPS.
The Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS) consensus is able to
reach up to 1,000 TPS at peak capacity, and has been
3

TTC

adopted by various projects, aiming to create wider
adoption of blockchain technology.
Progress in TPS-scaling technology is being made, yet
blockchain networks are still extremely slow compared to
their centralized competitors.

Latent Adoption
The concept of a blockchain isn’t widely known, and thus its
adoption has yet to reach a critical mass that would allow
blockchain to enter mainstream use. Despite its successful
application in the fields of finance, insurance and
healthcare, most of the blockchain developments in the
aforementioned fields have yet to reach the general public.
At its current stage of development, blockchain is still
absent from the everyday lives of most people.
Social networking on the other hand, is a frequent daily
activity for most people. Combining social networking with
blockchain technology could be the catalyst that allows
blockchains to achieve widespread acceptance by the
public. Current blockchain solutions have failed to capture
the attention of the mainstream, while their infrastructure
remains unprepared to support large user bases and
transaction requirements. Additionally, most of the
platforms associated with these solutions have concepts
that are not at all user friendly, which drives blockchain
technology further away from the tipping point to
widespread adoption.
There’s still a long way to go before blockchain technology
will permeate the daily life of the common man. Blockchain
4

TTC

technology is still in the early stages of development, but
there is a strong demand for a solution that both enables
large transactions and fast processing speed, and that the
layperson can use with ease.

5

02
Infrastructure

TTC

Consensus (Multi-tier
BFT-DPoS)
In a decade of development, the consensus algorithm—also
known as the core of the blockchain technology—has
evolved from a single algorithm Proof of Work (PoW)
method to multiple algorithms, such as Proof of Stake
(PoS), Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS), and Byzantine
Fault Tolerance (BFT). Each consensus algorithm has pros
and cons. A blockchain project ought to adopt the
consensus algorithm that is best suited for its intended
purpose and ideology. TTC Platform created a new
consensus algorithm called the “Multi-tier BFT-DPoS” to
support large transaction processing and fast verification.
Multi-tier BFT-DPoS is a consensus algorithm based on the
DPoS consensus, where multiple representative producers
(Representatives) elected in real time can ensure the
stability and efficiency of new blocks under fair premise. Its
processing speed of a single chain can reach thousands of
transactions per second without multi-chain parallelism or a
shared processing mechanism. It also uses the BFT
mechanism to increase the speed of confirmation for each
transaction. Ideally, the time of confirmation is the same as
the generation of a new block, which improves the
execution efficiency of the entire blockchain. The multi-tier
Representative selection mechanism ensures that all
Representatives are provided fair opportunity for block
production.
7

TTC

Consensus Mining
In each round of the mining process, 21 Representatives
(out of a total of 50 Representatives) are selected to
produce a block or record and synchronize transactions on
behalf of all users. The TTC Platform rewards for consensus
mining will be generated simultaneously with the
production of the block. A Representative can receive
rewards attached to a block upon successful production of
said block.
There are different consensus periods for TTC consensus
mining. Each consensus period contains 10,512,000 blocks.
In the same consensus period, the amount of rewards in
one block remains the same. The mining rewards in the
first consensus period comprises half of all consensus
rewards. In the following consensus periods, the amount of
rewards is halved from the previous consensus period.
Specifically, 250,000,000 TTC Coins (25%) are reserved for
consensus mining. Since one block is produced on the TTC
Platform every 3 seconds, there are approximately 11.89
TTC Coins in one block for the first consensus period from 1
to 10,512,000 blocks. From 10,512,001 to 21,024,000
blocks, the amount of TTC Coins in one block is halved,
which is approximately 5.95, and so forth.

Voting Mechanism
Representatives are selected by vote from users who hold
TTC Coins. A user's votes can only be designated to a single
Representative, where each TTC Coin entitles its holder to
8

TTC

one vote for Representative selection. After ten rounds of
mining, the Representatives will be re-selected according to
the latest voting results. Also, if a selected Representative
does not produce a predetermined number of blocks, that
Representative will suffer a reduced probability of producing
blocks for a designated amount of time as a penalty.
A vote will become invalid after a week, so users will need
to update their votes for Representatives continuously.
Voters can review the performance of the Representatives
they have voted for, as measured by a Representative’s
productivity, blocks produced, and vote rankings.
As voting for Representatives is vital for consensus, voters
can also receive a share of the rewards in a produced block.
Specifically, 61.8% of the rewards in a block will be
distributed to the Representative, and 38.2% will be
distributed among users who have voted for that
Representative. The more a user votes, the more the user
can share in the TTC rewards apportioned for
Representative voting.
Voting for a Representative is a method of mining on the
TTC Platform. The rewards apportioned for Representative
voting can effectively incentivize both Representatives and
voters to be involved in the selection process of block
producers.

Multi-tier Representative Selection
There are multiple tiers for which Representative candidates
can be selected to produce blocks, with different

9

TTC

probabilities according to the tier they are in. The details
are illustrated in Table 1.

Tier

Rank

Probability

1

Top 10

100%

2

11 - 20

60%

3

21 - 30

40%

4

31 - 50

1 selected in each round

Table 1. Representative selection probability based on tier
and ranking

The multi-tier Representative selection mechanism provides
more opportunities to all participating candidates. It also
increases the security and efficiency of the blockchain, as
more Representatives are eligible to participate in block
production.
Voters can choose to vote for Representatives according to
their rankings. Lower ranked Representatives will have a
smaller total vote count, so a voter will receive a larger
portion of the voting rewards. If all holders vote logically,
the system will quickly reach a status of Pareto Efficiency.
According to Table 2, the Pareto Efficiency is set to: 1/N1 =
0.6/N2 = 0.4/N3 = 0.05/N4. In this case, the Voting
Rewards per vote will be the same no matter the
Representative a user votes for.

10

TTC

Representative
Amount

Probability of
Producing
Blocks

1

10

100%

N1

1/N1

2

10

60%

N2

0.6/N2

3

10

40%

N3

0.4/N3

4

20

5%

N4

0.05/N4

Tier

Vote
Count

Voting Rewards
per Vote

Table 2. The voting rewards per vote for Representatives
in different tiers

Under a balanced voting system, when a Representative
fails to produce blocks, the voters receive fewer voting
rewards. As a result, voters will be incentivized to vote for a
better Representative according to Representative
productivity levels, rather than the Representative vote
rankings.
As block production is a continuous process,
Representatives who fail to maintain a certain level of
productivity will fall behind in the ranks while those who
excel will rise above. In this system, personal profits are
positively correlated with the betterment of the TTC
Platform because rewards are provided based on the
efficiency of the entire blockchain. In other words, irrational
behaviors such as block producers colluding with one other
and ignoring poor productivity is discouraged since it comes
with a high opportunity cost.

11

TTC

Consensus Evolution
A decentralized consensus needs to evolve in order to
effectively serve different scenarios in the future. In the
TTC Platform, Representatives may initiate a proposal to
optimize the consensus mechanism with regards to rewards
distribution proportions, block production time, and more.
Proposals will be publicly voted on by users. During a voting
period, Representatives can share their positions on the
proposal. All TTC Coin holders can participate by voting for
Representatives according to their positions via the TTC
Connect universal wallet. After the end of a voting period,
all Representatives will cast their votes on the proposal.
Each Representative’s voting power is different; the number
of votes a Representative received from constituents
determines the number of votes that Representative uses.
For a proposal to pass, it requires two thirds of the votes.
When a proposal is accepted, the execution of that proposal
will occur online via Proof of Autonomy (PoA) consensus
without any code changes. In this way, ordinary users can
participate in the governance of the consensus mechanism
by voting for a Representative they trust.
The TTC Platform provides the means to achieve democratic
consensus in a simple and effective way. The electoral
voting mechanism increases participation, efficiency, and
the validity of voting compared to a direct voting
mechanism. This system ensures that the ultimate power to
decide significant consensus reform lies with TTC Coin
holders.
For the avoidance of doubt, while the TTC Coins entitle its
holders to cast votes per the consensus mechanism as
12

TTC

described herein, TTC Coin holders have no right or control,
through the aforementioned voting process or otherwise,
over any entity part of TTC Group, or any of its assets,
which shall remain under the full and absolute control of
the TTC Group. TTC Coin holders have no connection,
purely on the basis of the TTC Coins, with the TTC Group.

13

TTC

Master/Slave Network
There is one master network and multiple slave networks
on the TTC Platform. The master network primarily deals
with asset transactions with a relatively high security
demand. Slave networks mainly record the data with a
relatively high speed. The separation of master and slave
networks increases the performance, security, and
decentralization of the TTC Platform significantly.
A gas mechanism is introduced to protect the TTC Platform
from abnormal attacks. A gas fee is necessary for each
asset transaction on the master network. The more gas fee
a user pays, the faster the transaction is processed. The
gas fee will become a part of consensus mining rewards for
Representatives and voters. For slave networks, a gas fee is
purchased in advance by the DAPP developer who would
like to use the resource. As a result, DAPP users can enjoy
the service on slave network without paying a gas fee.
The master network and slave networks run in parallel. A
selected Representative will produce blocks on both the
master network and slave networks in one time period.
Representatives are obligated to keep productivity high on
all networks, which is important to the operation of the TTC
Platform. Representatives that fail to produce blocks on
either networks will be penalized. Specific rules are as
follows:

14

TTC

1. A Representative only receives full consensus rewards
upon the successful production of all blocks on master
and slave networks.
2. A Representative receives no consensus rewards if the
Representative fails to successfully produce the block
on the master network.
3. When a Representative produces the block on the
master network but is unable to produce blocks on a
slave network, consensus rewards are attenuated.
The attenuation imposed will be proportional to the
amount of blocks that were not produced, and the
attenuation coefficient falls into logarithmic
distribution.
It’s obvious that even one missed block causes relatively
large losses according to the attenuation coefficient.
Additionally, Representatives will have a reduced probability
of producing blocks for a designated amount of time as a
penalty. Furthermore, low productivity can influence voters’
trust, leading to fewer votes in the future. This
arrangement ensures it is always the best strategy for
Representatives to keep a high productivity on all networks.

15

TTC

Payment Solution
TTC Pay is an independent payment solution for
conveniently transferring TTC Coins. Anyone can provide
TTC Pay as a payment method simply by integrating the
TTC Pay Software Development Kit (SDK).
TTC Pay provides an in-depth integration with merchant
services. Related information such as product details can be
transferred during the payment. TTC Coin payment can be
conducted by simply scanning a Quick Response (QR) code,
providing a smooth and seamless user experience.
Developers can also accept TTC Coins as a payment method
in DAPPs, which helps build the value chain and attract
more users.

16

TTC

Fig 1. A demonstration of a DAPP integrating TTC Pay
TTC Pay increases the potential uses of TTC Coins
significantly. As more and more users accept TTC Coins as a
payment method, the TTC ecosystem (TTC Ecosystem)
expands. The result is a more dynamic ecosystem that
benefits both DAPP developers and end users alike.

TTC Connect
Users store and manage their assets in TTC Connect. With a
Single Sign-On (SSO) function, users can connect different
services in the TTC Ecosystem. TTC Connect bridges the
17

TTC

gap between users and the TTC Platform. The main
functions of TTC Connect are as follows.
●

Synchronizing rewards among multiple DAPPs.

●

Transferring assets with other users or exchanges.

●

Taking part in the governance of consensus by voting
for Representatives.

●

Conducting payments with TTC Coins.

Fig 2. A demonstration of TTC Connect

18

03
Token
Economy

TTC

Token Economy
The universal token of the TTC Platform, TTC Coin (Symbol:
TTC), serves as the universal currency in the TTC
Ecosystem and can be used to fulfill a number of different
functions, such as transfer of assets, deployment of smart
contracts, and purchase of gas for the slave network.
Tokens on the TTC Platform lay the foundation for the
various services on the TTC Platform, further expanding the
TTC Ecosystem with each new service and user that
participates.

20

TTC

TTC Coin Allocation
A total supply of 1,000,000,000 ERC-20 compliant TTC
Interim Tokens had initially been issued for sale, ecosystem
building, operation of the TTC Foundation, consensus
mining, additional incentives for team members, additional
incentives for legacy users, and bounty programs.
The TTC Interim Tokens that were initially issued were ERC20 Standard-compliant cryptographic tokens. In connection
with the launch of the TTC Platform Mainnet, these initial
ERC-20 Standard-compliant TTC Interim Tokens will be
swappable (Launch Token Swap) for TTC Standardcompliant TTC Coins on the basis of:
(a) one ERC-20 Standard-compliant TTC Interim Token;
for
(b) one TTC Standard-compliant TTC and ten TTC
Standard-compliant Acorn Tokens (further details of
the Acorn Tokens are set out in this Whitepaper).
Further details including timing of the Launch Token Swap
will be announced in due course.

The allocation of TTC Coins (being TTC Interim Tokens preLaunch Token Swap) is as follows:
●

25% of the total pool of TTC Interim Tokens had been
distributed via a TTC Interim Token sale, each of
21

TTC

which will be swappable for one TTC Coin and ten
Acorn Tokens in connection with the Launch Token
Swap
●

20% of the total pool of TTC Coins (being TTC Interim
Tokens pre-Launch Token Swap) for use in ecosystem
building

●

20% of the total pool of TTC Coins (being TTC Interim
Tokens pre-Launch Token Swap) for use by the TTC
Foundation, which supports the development of a
healthy and accessible environment

●

25% of the total pool of TTC Coins (being TTC Interim
Tokens pre-Launch Token Swap) for use in the
consensus mining framework, to be distributed to
Representatives and voters

●

8% of the total pool of TTC Coins (being TTC Interim
Tokens pre- Launch Token Swap) is reserved for team
members and advisors

●

2% of the total pool of TTC Coins (being TTC Interim
Tokens pre- Launch Token Swap) is reserved for
legacy users and for use in bounty programs

22

TTC

Token Sale
25%

250,000,000TTC

Consensus Mining
25%

250,000,000TTC

Ecosystem building

20%

200,000,000TTC

Foundation
20%

200,000,000TTC

Team
8%

80,000,000TTC

Legacy Users and Bounty Programs
2%

20,000,000TTC

Fig 3. The allocation of TTC Coins (being TTC Interim
Tokens pre- Launch Token Swap)

23

TTC

Tokens on TTC Platform
Incentives for decentralized services in the blockchain world
commonly take the form of token awards. Especially at an
early stage, tokens can boost a service’s growth engine,
resulting in the growth of the service’s user base, user
activity, user retention, and advertising revenue.
Any entity will be able to issue tokens based on the TTC
Platform which adhere to the TTC Standard Token (TST-20),
a technical standard for smart contracts to implement
tokens on the TTC Platform, according to their business
requirements. Such entity may decide the amount, price
and distribution rules for the token. Tokens which are based
on the TTC Platform and adhere to the TST-20 standard
may be traded with TTC Coins on the TTC DEX in the TTC
Connect application.

24

04
TTC
Foundation

TTC

TTC Foundation
The TTC Foundation1 is an independent and non-profit
governance institution. Its mission is to ensure the TTC
Ecosystem operates reliably and transparently. The main
objective of the TTC Foundation is the open governance of
its resources and partners in the ecosystem, which entails,
amongst other, the following:

1

●

Establishing a global ecosystem by inviting more
DAPPs, and increasing the TTC Platform user base
along with user value

●

Supporting the TTC Ecosystem by funding new
projects, providing airdrop subsidies to DAPPs for
early user acquisition, and ensuring the fast and
stable growth of the entire TTC Ecosystem

●

Establishing a set of fair and transparent governance
processes, assisting developers in the prevention and
containment of system abuse in order to maintain a
healthy environment

●

Supporting the sustainable development and
optimization of the TTC Platform to deal with various
issues that might arise as more members join the
ecosystem

TTC Foundation is a company incorporated in the Republic of Singapore as a company
limited by shares known as TTCFoundation Pte. Ltd. (Singapore Company Registration
Number 201808413G).

26

05
Acorn
Protocol

TTC

Acorn Protocol
The Acorn Protocol is a social networking protocol based on
the TTC Platform. It incentivizes users who make
meaningful contributions to their networks via the Acorn
Token, a token based on the TTC Platform and which
adheres to the TST-20 standard. The Acorn Token is
distributed to users who proactively participate in DAPPs
that are members of the Acorn Alliance, an organization
composed of different types of social networking services.
The Acorn Token also serves as the digital asset of
exchange for Acorn Alliance DAPPs and for advertising
across the Acorn Alliance.

28

TTC

Decentralized Social
Networks
Social networking services are among the most frequently
used services in everyday life, meaning social networks
represent huge potential inroads for blockchain technology
to become widely accepted by the public. In social
networks, each user functions as a node. As the frequency
and the probability at which user interactions increases, the
density of nodes increases. This underlying pattern makes
social networks highly compatible with blockchains.
For an average user, using a decentralized social network
isn’t much different in practice than using a centralized one.
A typical post cycle might look something like this to the
average user: you wake up in the morning to find your two
cats are playing with each other. You take out your cell
phone, take a video of your cats, and upload the footage to
a personal life sharing platform that pushes the footage to
a video sharing platform that you only recently registered
for. Suddenly, your video is picked up by the platform
users. They upvote your post, comment on it, even share it
on other platforms. All of these interactions increases the
value of your post. Your post then becomes one of the most
popular posts of the day. However, unlike most social
networks, you are rewarded for your contribution (a
popular post) with tokens. In this case, you use the tokens
to purchase a virtual gift to send to a streamer you like on
a live streaming platform also on the network.
29

TTC

personal life
sharing platform

video sharing
platform
User
live streaming
platform

social networks based
on the blockchain

Fig 4. A demonstration of the value chain for blockchainbased social networks
This is just one possible way participating on a
decentralized social network could impact its users. In
social networks built on blockchain, users who have created
high-quality content stand to be rewarded. Additionally, as
with traditional social networks, users can choose to watch
advertisements or participate in activities requested by
advertisers, but unlike centralized social networks, the
advertising revenue will be directly distributed to the users.
This is yet another way users benefit from a blockchainbased social network. Blockchain technology provides an
opportunity to integrate a variety of products and services
30

TTC

across a wide network. For the user this means a
significantly more valuable network, and for the developer
this means exponential community growth.

31

TTC

Acorn Rewards Engine
The Acorn Token (ACN) serves as the native token for the
Acorn Protocol. The total amount of Acorn Tokens is
10,000,000,000. The allocation of use of ACN is the same
as the allocation of use of TTC Coins as set out in 03 Token
Economy, with 25% of Acorn Tokens to be distributed in
connection with the Launch Token Swap (referred to in the
section entitled TTC Allocation of this Whitepaper) to
holders of ERC-20 Standard-compliant TTC Interim Tokens.
As a protocol for social networks, the Acorn Protocol
distributes Acorn Token rewards to DAPP users and
developers who make contributions to the ecosystem. A
total of 2,500,000,000 ACN is reserved for an Acorn
Rewards Engine, half of which are distributed in the first
year of inception. In each subsequent year, half of the
remaining Acorn Tokens will be distributed every year.
Distribution amounts change on a yearly basis. Put another
way, the daily distributed ACN will be the same amount
each day for ACN distributed in the same year.
On a daily basis, a predetermined amount of Acorn Token
rewards will be distributed among all DAPPs in the Acorn
Alliance according to the contributions they make to the
ecosystem. The rewards distributed to a specific DAPP will
be distributed between the developer and users based on a
set ratio. For the protection of all DAPPs in the Acorn

32

TTC

Alliance, Acorn Token rewards for DAPP developers are
subject to predetermined period of lock-up.
The Acorn Protocol distributes most rewards to DAPP users
who make contributions. This is considered a mining
activity, one that encourages users to stay active and
continuously make contributions in DAPPs. Compared with
the traditional mining system, computing power is not as
essential a resource as it used to be. Instead, meaningful
contribution is emphasized, and those who truly contribute
to a DAPP are recognized and rewarded.
More details about the Acorn Rewards Engine can be found
in 06 Acorn Rewards Engine.

33

TTC

Use Cases
As the native and currency token for the Acorn Protocol, the
Acorn Token plays an important role in providing a better
user experience. Third party developers can receive Acorn
Tokens for their service from DAPP users. The services they
provide become channels of Acorn Token flow in the
ecosystem. Acorn Tokens can be used in the following
ways:

Emoticons
Emoticons make chatting more interesting. Third party
designers can provide emoticons to users and accept
payment of Acorn Tokens in return.

Chat bots
Third party chat bots can offer various services such as ondemand weather reports, real-time exchange rates, and
other premium services users can pay for with Acorn Token.

34

TTC

Private gifting
Users can send virtual gifts to others with acquired Acorn
Token.

Discount coupons
Users can use Acorn Tokens to purchase discount coupons
for online and offline stores.

Additional scenarios might include bounty payments,
interactive game earnings, special item purchases, and so
forth. There are numerous possible ways to provide a richer
user experience with Acorn Tokens.

35

TTC

Acorn Ad Network
The Acorn Ad Network is a network that allows advertisers
to promote their products and brands within the Acorn
Protocol ecosystem. The general outline and concept of the
Acorn Ad Network are similar to traditional online ad
networks. Advertisers use Acorn Tokens to bid for
advertisement slots on the Acorn Ad Network, and the
winning bidder uses the slot to promote content to millions
of users. Advertisements are configurable as individual
display ads, promotional campaigns, customer surveys, and
so forth.
Acorn Tokens used for advertisements are distributed
directly to the users that view and interact with the
advertisements. The DAPP developer and TTC Foundation
will take a fractional transaction fee to cover the
maintenance cost of implementing the Acorn Ad Network.

36

TTC

Acorn Alliance
The Acorn Alliance is a membership-based association of
social networks using the Acorn Protocol. All types of social
networking services are welcome to join the Acorn Alliance,
including but not limited to content sharing platforms,
online forums, and social commercial services.
The Acorn Alliance is organized and governed by the TTC
Foundation. A DAPP must submit to a series of assessments
conducted by TTC Foundation before a DAPP can become a
member of the Acorn Alliance. Acorn Alliance member
benefits depend on a DAPPs needs.
For example, the TTC Foundation is able to invest in an
Acorn Alliance DAPP, or acquire the service to further its
development and operation. Allied DAPPs in the ecosystem
will be eligible for a series of subsidies from TTC
Foundation, including the Acorn Rewards Engine, airdrop
subsidies, and access to the Acorn Ad Network.

37

06
Acorn
Rewards
Engine

TTC

Acorn Rewards Engine
Acorn Token rewards originate from the Acorn Token
rewards pool and are distributed among DAPPs. All DAPP
rewards are calculated via the Acorn Rewards Engine,
based on the information recorded on the TTC Platform. The
calculated rewards for each DAPP will be sent to the
accounts of DAPP users and developers.
Variables and Terms

Explanation

Daily ACN Rewards Pool (Etrp)

Daily ACN rewards distributed from the
ACN Rewards Pool

Daily DAPP Rewards Pool (Edapp)

Number of ACN allotted to a single DAPP
from the daily ACN rewards pool (Etrp)

Daily Developer Rewards (Rdev)

Number of ACN distributed to a DAPP
developer from the daily DAPP Rewards
(Rdapp)

Daily DAPP User Rewards Pool
(Euser)

Daily Reputation Rewards Pool
(Erep)

Total Daily Content Rewards Pool
(Ecv-total)

Number of ACN distributed to users of a
DAPP.
Euser = Edapp - Rdev
Euser x wrep
Total number of ACN allotted for the Content Rewards (Rcv)
Ecv-total = Euser x wcv

39

TTC

Single Daily Content Rewards
Pool (Ecv)

Total number of ACN allotted for users
involved with the Content Rewards (Rcv)
of a single content.
Ecv = (Vcv / Sum of Vcv) x Ecv-total

Reputation Rewards (Rrep)

Number of ACN each user receives based
on their Reputation Value (Vrep)

Content Rewards (Rcv)

Number of ACN each user receives based
on the Content Value created by the user
(Vcv)

Table 3. Main Rewards and Rewards Pools of Acorn
Rewards Engine Distribution System

First, the daily DAPP rewards pool (Edapp) is calculated. The
Acorn Rewards Engine divides the pool into the daily
developer rewards (Rdev) and the daily DAPP user rewards
pool (Euser). Finally, based on the daily DAPP user rewards
pool, daily user rewards (Ruser) is calculated as a sum of
reputation rewards and content rewards.
As a decentralized ecosystem, all the data related to these
factors are recorded on the TTC Platform openly and
transparently. Monthly variables are based on a 30-day
time frame, and annual variables are based on a 365-day
time frame.

40

TTC

Daily DAPP Rewards Pool
(Edapp) for each DAPP
The total amount of ACN each DAPP will receive is
calculated based on the overall contribution it made to the
Ecosystem.
Table 4 (below) introduces several terms and variables
required to calculate the daily DAPP rewards pool (Edapp) for
each DAPP in the ecosystem.
Variables and Terms

Explanation

Contribution Factor Value (Vcf)

Value of how much a DAPP contributed to
TTC Ecosystem as calculated by TTC
Foundation.

User Nationality Score (Sn)

User Acquisition Score (Sua)

Value of a user acquired in a specific nation.
Refer to Table 10 in the Appendix.
Degree of difficulty at which a DAPP acquires new users.
Refer to Table 11 in the Appendix.

User Value (Vuser)

Value of a user in a DAPP, calculated by
multiplying the user nationality score and
user acquisition score.
Vuser = Sn x Sua

Monthly New User Value
(Vmnu)

Sum of Vuser of monthly new users of a
DAPP

Monthly Active User Value
(Vmau)

Sum of Vuser of monthly active users of a
DAPP

Table 4. Variables required to calculate the Daily DAPP
Rewards Pool (Edapp)
41

TTC

The amount a DAPP has contributed is calculated using the
above factors and compared to all DAPPs across the
network. Table 5 shows the ratios used to compare for four
key factors.
Terms

Type

Explanation

Description

Ratio of a DAPP’s monthly new users
to the sum of all the DAPPs’ monthly
new users

Equation

rmnu = Vmnu / Sum of Vmnu

Ratio

20%

Description

Ratio of a DAPP’s monthly active users
to the sum of all the DAPPs’ monthly
active users

Equation

rmau = Vmau / Sum of Vmau

Ratio

20%

Description

Ratio of a DAPP’s monthly Acorn AD
Network revenue to the total Acorn AD

MNU Rate (rmnu)

MAU Rate (rmau)

Network monthly revenue2.

MR Rate (rmr)
Equation

"rmr =

A D A PP ′s m o n t h l y r e v e n u e f r o m T T C A D Ne t w o r k
A t o t a l m o n t h l y r e v e n u e o f T T C A D Ne t w o r k

Ratio

50%

Description

Ratio of a DAPP’s contribution factor
value to the sum of all the DAPPs’
contribution factor values

Equation

rcf = Vcf / Sum of Vcf

Ratio

10%

CF Rate (rcf)

Table 5. Evaluation Items for Daily DAPP Rewards Pool
(Edapp)

Edapp = Etrp x {(rmnu x 0.2) + (rmau x 0.2) + (rmr x 0.5) + (rcf x
0.1)}2
!
2

For DAPPs that do not host advertisements from Acorn AD Networks, this value is 0.

42

TTC

Daily Developer Rewards
(Rdev)
The daily developer rewards (Rdev) are Acorn Token rewards
for DAPP developers for their contributions.
Table below contains all the key variables and terms
required to calculate the daily developer rewards. DAPP
Developers can preset the developer rewards weight, which
will be recorded in the Acorn Rewards Engine.
Variables and Terms

Explanation

Developer Rewards Weight
(wdev)

% value preset by a DAPP developer determining how much of daily DAPP rewards pool
(Edapp) is distributed to the developer

Table 6. Variables required to calculate the Daily Developer
Rewards (Rdev)

Rdev = Edapp x wdev

43

TTC

Daily User Rewards (Ruser)
Daily user rewards are distributed to all users of a DAPP
who have contributed on the previous day. For each user, a
daily user rewards will be calculated as a sum of Content
Rewards and Reputation Rewards.

Ruser = Rrep + Rcv
DAPP developers can decide the proportion of the two kinds
of rewards according to the needs of their platforms. The
simple rule of thumb for the daily user rewards is that the
more contributions you have made, the more rewards you
will get.
The developers can also set the ratios for both reputation
rewards pool and content rewards pool, which are used to
determine the size of each pool.

Reputation Rewards (Rrep)
A user’s reputation (Vrep) is a quantified value of the user’s
long-term contribution. A user’s reputation can reflect the
total contribution a user has made to the platform, and it is
an effective way to combat and prevent abuse.
DAPP developers can decide the criteria and weight used to
calculate Reputation rewards (Rrep). Table 7 below shows
44

TTC

the basic default criteria and equation of how a user’s
Reputation (Vrep) is calculated.
Variables and Terms

Explanation

Reputation Rewards Pool Ratio
(wrep)3

Ratio determining the size of the reputation
rewards pool

Retention Score (Sr)

Retention Score (Sr)

Content Score (Sc)

Content value of the content posted by a
user

Follower Score (Sf)

Social value of a user

Police Score (Sp)

How much a user contributes to the health
of the DAPP environment. (e.g. report and
audit)

Retention Weight (wr)

Weight determining how much Retention
Score is used to calculate the Reputation
(Vrep.)

Content Weight (wc)

Weight determining how much Content
Score is used to calculate the Reputation
(Vrep.)

Follower Weight (wf)

Weight determining how much Follower
Score is used to calculate the Reputation
(Vrep.)

Police Weight (wp)

Weight determining how much Police Score
is used to calculate the Reputation (Vrep.)

Table 7. Default scores and weights for Reputation
Rewards

Erep = Euser x wrep.
Vrep = (Sr x wr)+ (Sc x wc) + (Sf x wf) + (Sp x wp)
Rrep = (Vrep / Sum of Vrep) x Erep3
3

Typically, reputation rewards comprises less than 50% of the rewards pool. The proportions are adjustable.

45

TTC

Content Rewards (Rcv)
Content rewards (Rcv) are rewards distributed to both
creators and curators of content from a single daily content
rewards pool (Ecv).

Variables and Terms

Explanation

Content Rewards Pool Ratio (wcv)

Ratio determining the size of Content Rewards Pool.

Table 8. Variables required to calculate the single daily
content rewards pool (Ecv)

Ecv-total = Euser x wcv
Ecv = (Vcv / Sum of Vcv) x Ecv-total

Content rewards (Rcv) are closely linked to content value
(Vcv). Content value (Vcv) is the value of a piece of content
as calculated by the Acorn Rewards Engine using the number of curators interacting with the content and the reputation of those curators.
As all social networks have unique actions and aims, DAPP
developers can decide which actions to count and how to
weigh each action. Table 9 below shows the default settings
as an example.

46

TTC

Variables and Terms

Explanation

Action #1: Like

Action “Like” will influence the Content
Value (Vcv)

Action #2: Comment

Action “Comment” will influence the
Content Value (Vcv)

Action #3: Share

Action “Share” will influence the Content
Value (Vcv)

Action #1 Weight (wa1)

Weight determining how much Action #1 is
used to calculate the Content Value (Vcv)

Action #2 Weight (wa2)

Weight determining how much Action #2 is
used to calculate the Content Value (Vcv)

Action #3 Weight (wa3)

Weight determining how much Action #3 is
used to calculate the Content Value (Vcv)

Table 9. Default actions and weight for Content Rewards
(Vcv)

Vcv = 𝝪like * ∑ 𝒇 (reputation of liker) + 𝝪comment * ∑ 𝒇 (reputation of
commenter) + 𝝪share * ∑ 𝒇 (reputation of sharer)

DAPP developers can adjust the proportion parameters
between content creators and curators.4 Simply, curators
are users who interacted with a piece of content (e.g.,
liking, commenting, presenting gifts, etc.).
DAPP developers can adjust the parameters of the Acorn
Rewards Engine, including the proportion between content
4

Typically, the content creator would a larger share since they contribute most. The proportions are adjustable.

47

TTC

creators and curators, or the proportions for different ways
of curation, different distribution patterns of curation, and
so forth.
For reward-specific interactions, the distribution pattern
typically decreases over time, since interaction with highquality content is less significant when it has already been
recognized by a critical mass of users.

48

07
Summary

TTC

Summary
The TTC Platform is a blockchain solution committed to
achieving mass adoption. With an optimized consensus and
a separation of master and slave networks, the TTC
Platform is capable of reaching a higher TPS, laying a solid
foundation for its services.
The Acorn Protocol is a decentralized and token-incentivized
social networking protocol based on the TTC Platform. It
aims to provide token incentives to users who have made
contributions to the Acorn Protocol ecosystem. It can be
seen as a new way of mining. The Acorn Protocol deemphasizes computing power as a less relevant resource,
and instead emphasizes social contributions as a key
resource. The users that truly contribute to the platforms
are clearly recognized and fairly incentivized, resulting in
increased user activity, higher user retention, and larger
advertising revenue.
The TTC Platform addresses the problems of current
blockchain solutions and can support large transactions and
a variety of possible use cases. In doing so, the TTC
Platform provides a decentralized solution at a high level of
performance, security, and scalability. The TTC Platform is
committed to changing traditional, centralized social
networking services with the Acorn Protocol and Acorn
Tokens, while TTC Pay offers a user-friendly experience by
providing a seamless method for users to make payments.
50

TTC

Altogether, the TTC Platform is a comprehensive blockchain
solution able to realize the full potential of blockchain
technology and bring the benefits of this technology to the
general public.

51

Appendix

TTC

Appendix

Nation & Region

D

North America

3

Europe

2

China

2

South Korea

2

Japan

2

Oceania

2

Other Asian Countries

1

South America

1

Africa

1

Others

1

Table 10. Value table for User Nationality Score (Sn)

53

TTC

Product Type

U

Social Networking Service

10

Social Media

1

Video Community

3

Customization

0.5—100

Table 11. Value table for User Acquisition Score (Sua)

54

