Upfiring

Whitepaper
December 21st, 2017
Draft Version 0.9.1.

© Upfiring - www.upfiring.com - support@upfiring.com

© 2017 Upfiring affiliate company. All rights reserved.
Trademarks
Upfiring, Upfiring tokens (UFR), and all associated logos are registered trademarks of Upfiring. All
other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Disclaimer
The information provided in this document is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. Upfiring
disclaims all warranties, either express or implied, including the warranties of merchantability and
fitness for a particular purpose. In no event shall Upfiring be liable for any damages whatsoever
including direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, loss of business profits or special damages, even if
Upfiring or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages.
This is a preliminary draft. The ideas and specifications proposed in this draft may be considered highly
conceptual, and are subject to significant revision or change based on further discussions with partners,
advisors and the Upfiring community.
Document Lifetime
Upfiring may occasionally update online documentation as the company and app change over time,
and in between releases of the related software. Consequently, if this document was not obtained
recently, it may not contain the most up-to-date information. Please refer to www.upfiring.com for the
most current information.
Product information — Documentation, release notes, software updates, and information about
Upfiring products, licensing, and service, will be able to be found at the Upfiring website:
http://www.upfiring.com
Technical support — Available as soon as the app launches.
Your comments
Your suggestions will help us continue to improve the accuracy, organization, and overall quality of the
user publications. Please send your opinion of this document to:
tyler@upfiring.com
If you have issues, comments, or questions about specific information or procedures, please include
the title and, if available, the part number, the revision, the page numbers, and any other details that
will help us locate the subject that you are addressing.

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

Table of Contents
1

Introduction ............................................................................................................ 4

2

Upfiring P2P Network ............................................................................................. 5

3

The Application....................................................................................................... 8

4

The Upfiring Foundation ....................................................................................... 10

5

Examples and Illustrations ................................................................................... 12

6

Summary .............................................................................................................. 14

7

References ........................................................................................................... 15

8

Resources ............................................................................................................ 16

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 3 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

1

Introduction

1.1

Abstract

Technical Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

Upfiring is a peer-to-peer (P2P) distributed file-transferring platform designed at its core to
enhance the way files are shared between users. By decentralizing the file-sharing process,
Upfiring completely removes the middleman and allows users to directly exchange information
via the blockchain network. Upfiring utilizes the Ethereum ecosystem as its primary platform
for transaction-processing [11]. By encrypting communications on the blockchain and allowing
nodes to communicate directly, Upfiring can function as a fully-decentralized exchange for files
and value transactions - allowing users to download or seed their own files at will. Distributed
networks are able to collaborate in a trustless manner without a single point of failure [1]. In
addition, smart contracts regulate all transactions by overseeing the encryption of files,
verifying proof-of-ownership, and guaranteeing a seamless transfer of value. The use of smart
contracts allows for the objective management of transactions without requiring authoritative
supervision. The emergence of these technologies have reflected a much greater attitude shift
towards the use of the internet – the growing preference for decentralized, trustless applications
over centralized, third-party-controlled services.
This paper seeks to provide an overview of the Upfiring protocol and explain its
underlying technology and functionality in detail. We will break down the application’s key
components, compare it to existing non-blockchain P2P file-sharing applications, and explain
how Upfiring’s unique approach to decentralized, contract-driven incentivization seeks to
transform the blockchain file-sharing space.

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 4 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

2

Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

Upfiring P2P Network

Upfiring emphasizes connecting and communicating as a means of creating value.

2.1

A New Way to Envision File-Sharing

What if you could bring everyday file-sharing to the worldwide free market and allow users to
freely exchange files on a decentralized marketplace? This was the idea that set Upfiring into
action in early 2016. The file-sharing industry has long been a victim of shutdowns, government
interference, and strict regulations stemming from centralization.

[10] Depicts a fully decentralized P2P architecture
By removing the central server and allowing nodes in the network to communicate
directly without outside interference, Upfiring aims to revolutionize the way the world thinks
about file-sharing. Disrupting this market is a multibillion-dollar venture. In the long-term,
Upfiring aims to become the leading file-sharing platform for users around the world. The

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 5 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

Technical Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

network utilizes redundancy and breaks files into fragments that are distributed across the
network, further strengthening security [1].

2.2

Upfiring Tokens – A Brief Overview

Upfiring (UFR) tokens are the core of Upfiring’s incentivization protocol. Users can “spend”
UFR in exchange for files being offered by other users on the network. To accumulate UFR,
users can share files with the network (seeding) and be rewarded with UFR each time their file
is downloaded. UFR can also be acquired on numerous cryptocurrency exchanges on the web,
and will be directly exchangeable for Ethereum.

2.3

Uses Cases

Early versions of Upfiring will support the sharing of “safe” file types (.doc, .pdf, .wav), .torrent
extensions, and magnet links. We plan to expand support for other types over time. Some use
case examples include university students sharing large documents with one another without
the file-size limitations of services like Dropbox, artists sharing their own music, writers sharing
their work, and programmers releasing applications/browser extensions. In each of these cases,
users will proactively accumulate UFR tokens as a reward for using the network. Because the
community is in full control of the platform, the possibilities for growth are endless.

2.4

Incentivization of file-sharing and seeding protocols

Perhaps one of the greatest solutions that Upfiring offers to the current state of file-sharing is
the incentive to seed files. Traditional torrent and file-sharing programs offer no incentive to
seed files after a download is completed, often resulting in long download times for users or the
complete inability to download files altogether [2]. By tokenizing this aspect of the file-sharing
protocol, users can download huge amounts of information from the network at very little cost,
while providing passive rewards to those who choose to seed and share their files with the
network.

2.5

Decentralization as core-component of file-sharing

It is our strong belief that file-sharing should be decentralized and utilize blockchain technology
for maximum security. Traditional file-sharing protocols are vulnerable to breaches of security
and shutdowns that will be non-issues for Upfiring users [4]. Because the network will be

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 6 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

decentralized and run on the Ethereum blockchain, there is no central point of failure - making
the network extremely resilient and reliable [11].

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 7 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

Technical Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

3

The Application

3.1

Features

Upfiring will employ several technologies to create a successful peer-to-peer system:
1. Block Exchanges - allows for peers to trustlessly distribute pieces of files to each other.
This technology can track the availability of file pieces and order them efficiently.
2. Node Identities - Nodes will be identified by a node_id, which will be cryptographically
hashed to create a public-key. Nodes first exchange public keys on initial contact.
3. Network - Upfiring uses a hash checksum to check the integrity of messages, and can
provide reliability through uTP (LEDBAT) or SCTP
4. Smart Contracts - UFR as a distributed ledger - upon successful completion of the proofof-transfer protocol, UFR tokens are sent from the downloaders UFR wallet to the
seeders wallet across the blockchain.
5.

3.2

Proof-of-storage and Proof-of-transfer

Proof-of-storage (also known as proof-of-space) protocols are periodically run to check for
changes on the network and to authenticate seeded files. Proof-of-transfer protocols consist of
several smaller methods that run during each step of the file-transferring process to ensure that
transactions are completed in their entirety [6]. Both proof-of-storage and proof-of-transfer
results are published to the blockchain and all transactions will be verifiable, ensuring that UFR
tokens are transferred appropriately [8].

3.3

Roadmap

Date

Release

June 2016

Idea, planning, inception, concept development

December 2016

Concept validation

April 2017

Upfiring project revealed

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 8 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

May 2017

Initial website launch

June 2017

Whitepaper released

October 2017

UFR Contribution Period v.1.0.

Q1 2018-Q3 2018

Heavy dapp development, smart contract development, and
QA testing

Q3 2018

Upfiring Beta Dapp Release on Rinkeby Testnet

Q4 2018

Upfiring Beta Dapp Release on Ethereum Mainnet

Q1 2019

Upfiring Full Application v1.0.0 release on Ethereum Mainnet
New website launched catered specifically to the Dapp
Upfiring Usage Guides and Documentation released

Q2 2019 – Onwards*

Application upgrades & further releases, community growth

*New roadmap will be released in Q1 2019 upon Upfiring Application v1.0.0 Full Release with a
more detailed future plan for upgrades, feature enhancements, and project goals

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 9 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

4

The Upfiring Foundation

4.1

Upfiring Tokens (UFR) – Smart tokens

Technical Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

Upfiring tokens are for sole use on the Upfiring network. Users should not buy
Upfiring tokens with the expectation of profit.

Upfiring tokens (UFR) are ERC20-standardized and EIP-228-standardized tokens used to power
movement on network. Users can earn UFR tokens by seeding files and renting their disk space
to the network for any period of time.

4.2

UFR Crowdsale Objectives

The purpose of the UFR crowdsale is to distribute UFR tokens to the market. We seek to obtain
the necessary funding to drive the continuous development of the application as well as
maintain standard business functions. By contributing to the crowdsale, contributors are
procuring coins that can be used on our network and should not be doing so with an
expectation of profit. Coin value may change at any time based on naturally assessed market
value and has no intrinsic worth besides its use on the Upfiring network.

4.2.1
❖
❖
❖
❖

❖
❖

❖
❖

Contribution Period V.1.0 Statistics

Dates: October 3rd 2017 (12:00 PM EST) to October 31 2017 (11:59 AM EST)
Exchange Rate: 15,000 UFR: 1 ETH (~$0.02 cents throughout the Contribution Period)
Recommended gas limit is 300000
Can send Ether directly to the smart contract - allow up to 7 days from the time the
contribution period ends to receive UFR tokens to your Ethereum address. Please be sure to
send Ether from a wallet and not Coinbase or an exchange
844.01973 Ethers were generated from contract contributions. All transactions can be viewed
on Etherscan.
BTC, ETH, and LTC contributions were accepted briefly at the start of the crowdsale, sent
directly to our addresses instead of the contract. During this time, 0.07255 BTC, 6.46959
ETH, and 39.49 LTC were raised and UFR tokens were generated and sent to contributors
by the contract.
13,275,270.1382 UFR was generated in total between ETH smart contract, BTC, ETH, LTC,
and bounty campaign contributions.
Bounty Campaign UFR will be generated in the week following the crowdsale. After the
Bounty Campaign concludes, the contract will be finalized. UFR cannot be transferred
between addresses until this time.

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 10 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

❖ 400 million UFR was generated as a reserve. This UFR will not be in circulation when
trading goes live. Because the hard cap was not reached, a large portion of this UFR will be
burned in order to scale down the total supply. In addition, the total UFR held by team
members and developers will be scaled down to 19% of the new total supply.

4.3

Additional Statistics – UFR tokens & burn event

❖ A token burn took place on November 19th, 2018 following completion of the contribution
period to burn excess UFR.
❖ The circulating supply was reduced to 24,000,000 UFR.
❖ 14.4 million UFR distributed in Contribution Period v.1.0.
❖ 1.44 million UFR reserved for potential in-app purchasing of tokens (later application
versions)
❖ 3.6 million UFR Reserved for potential Contribution Period v2.0**
❖ 4.56 million UFR reserved for founders (released upon initial application launch)
❖ One additional contribution period may be hosted. This will only occur after the
deployment of key application milestones and in the event that additional funding is
necessary to complete the project
**Contribution Period v.2.0 has been ruled out. 1/3 of the UFR initially designated for this
purpose will be used to help facilitate and fund new exchange listings (if necessary). The
remaining 2/3 of the UFR will be stored in reserve until a more detailed plan is created for its
use. It may be used to help facilitate partnerships with existing P2P networks and communities
after release of the application.

4.4

Adaptation of development to account for funds
raised

The contribution period raised enough funding to continue forward with development. Due to
the amount raised, several modifications have been (and will continue to need to be) made in
order to ensure the successful development of the application and project. A major update to
the development plan is the removal of the iOS and Android applications from the roadmap.
The main focus of development will be on the Desktop application, which will function on
Windows, MacOS, and Linux environments. A mobile application may still be developed at a
later date, but will not be available upon initial application release. In addition, and when
necessary, some work may need to be outsourced as well.

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 11 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

5

Technical Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

Examples and Illustrations
A main focus of Upfiring will be ease of use for the end-user. Many blockchain
applications are incredibly complicated to set up and get running – we want Upfiring
to work right out of the box for everyone, on any device.

5.1

Upfiring vs. Traditional P2P File-Sharing Services

Upfiring will share and support many of the common features of modern-day P2P file-sharing
applications, including seeding, searching, downloading, ratings, and peer evaluation.
However, Upfiring offers several inherent features that make the application more powerful
than that of major competitors. Through tokenized exchanges, peer and file-ratings, extensive
spam filters, and encryption, file-transfers will be both easier to carry out and far safer for the
average user. Rather than paying a subscription fee or “purchasing” files, UFR tokens are
simply sent to the network as gas to power file-transfers, which then initiates the movement of
the files amongst nodes. Upon completion of the transfer, the seeder is then credited with the
majority of these tokens.

5.2

Network Reputation & Rating System*

As a decentralized application, a rating system is necessary to establish trust between clients
and hosts. The rating system for both files and users will also improve the quality of
transactions on the network. After receiving a file, users will be able to submit an optional,
public trust rating and feedback for the user and the file that will be visible to all other users.
This will help keep the network free of any unwanted or untrustworthy activity. As a secondlayer of defense, algorithms to detect and test potentially malicious files will be employed to
mark these types of files with the appropriate warning.
*The rating system may not be available upon the initial release of the application, and may be
added in to future releases.

5.3

Security

Encryption wraps the file securely throughout the entire transfer process across the network,
keeping its contents safe until it is reassembled and unlocked at its final destination node. As
such, all aspects of the file will be completely unreadable (including contents like the file name
and description) to anyone not directly involved the transaction between the seeder and
downloader [5]. This protocol protects the integrity and anonymity of the Upfiring network as a

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 12 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

whole and allows for movement to be completely decentralized and unregulated by any thirdparties.

5.4

Integration & Compatibility

The Upfiring Desktop Application will be available for Windows, MacOS and Linux operating
systems with full functionality. As Ethereum development continues, we may extend two-way
compatibility to a private sidechain of the blockchain [9].

5.5

File Smart Contracts

Two types of contracts will be distributed across the network - a contract to facilitate the
movement of files between peers, and another to manage the exchange of UFR. Each file
employs a Merkle root hash by breaking down the file into segments (of constant size) and
forming a Merkle tree. File smart contracts store file size information that can be used to
determine the UFR price, among other variables, between the seeder and their client.
Transaction smart contracts will explicitly specify payout parameters and facilitate the exchange
of UFR tokens. As development progresses, we plan to support customizable communitydriven smart contracts to allow users to create and adjust parameters themselves, and provide
their own Post, Get, Put, and Delete methods [10].

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 13 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

6

Technical Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

Summary

Upfiring is an innovative upgrade to modern-day P2P file-sharing technologies and seeks to
revolutionize the industry. We firmly believe that file-sharing should be decentralized and
incentivized, and that the adoption of a blockchain and cryptocurrency for these purposes
provides a huge potential for future growth. Incentivizing the file-sharing process will allow
our network to grow at an exponential pace and ensure a competitive decentralized
marketplace is established. The use of smart contracts will allow transactions to be verified and
recorded on the public blockchain so that any disputes can be solved easily within the Upfiring
community. We believe Upfiring will be the pioneer of incentivized blockchain file-sharing and
are enthusiastic about establishing this platform in a trustless environment.

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 14 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

7

Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

References

[1] J. H. Howard, M. L. Kazar, S. G. Menees, D. A. Nichols, M. Satyanarayanan, R. N.
Sidebotham, and M. J. West. Scale and performance in a distributed file system. ACM
Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS), 6(1):51–81, 1988.
[2] B. Cohen. Incentives build robustness in bittorrent. In Workshop on Economics of Peerto-Peer systems, volume 6, pages 68–72, 2003.
[3] D. Mazieres and F. Kaashoek. Self-certifying file system. 2000.
[4] Juan Benet. IPFS - Content Addressed, Versioned, P2P File System. 2014.
[5] I. Baumgart and S. Mies. S/kademlia: A practicable approach towards secure keybased routing. In Parallel and Distributed Systems, 2007 International Conference on,
volume 2, pages 1–8. IEEE, 2007.
[6] Ari Juels and Burton S Kaliski Jr. Pors: Proofs of retrievability for large files. In
Proceedings of the 14th ACM conference on Computer and communications security, pages
580–610. Acm, 2007.
[7] R.C. Merkle, Protocols for public key cryptosystems, In Proc. 1980 Symposium on
Security and Privacy, IEEE Computer Society, pages 100-142, April 1980.
[8] Hovav Shacham and Brent Waters. Compact proofs of retrievability. In International
Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security, pages 75–
115. Springer, 2008.
[9] Adam Back, Matt Corallo, Luke Dashjr, Mark Friedenbach, Gregory Maxwell,
Andrew Miller, Andrew Peolstra, Jorge Timon, Pieter Wuille, Enabling Blockchain
Innovations with Pegged Sidechains.
[10] Janne, Author & Supervisor, Julkunen & Ylianttila, Mika. Feasibility of Convergent
P2P and Web Service Architecture, 2017.
[11] Vitalik Buterin. Ethereum <https://ethereum.org/>, April 2014. URL
https://ethereum.org/.

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 15 of 16

Upfiring
Version 0.9.0.

8

Technical Whitepaper
www.upfiring.com

Resources

Connect with us
Facebook | @Upfiring
Twitter

| @UpfiringHQ

Address
Email: support@upfiring.com
Website: https://www.upfiring.com
This document defines the White Paper to be used for Upfiring projects.

© Upfiring 2019. All rights reserved.

Page 16 of 16

