CPUchain: Fast and secure online payment
network powered by CPUpower technology.

Min Khang Aung
info@cpuchain.org
www.cpuchain.org

CPUchain Core

Abstract
CPUchain is a widely distributed ledger and a new digital currency that enables
modern citizen to receive and spend payments quickly, cheaply, and from anywhere with an internet connection, all without relying on banks, specialized
mining hardwares, fraud, censorship, downtime, and centralized forces. CPUchain is fast, secure, and stable platform. We believe any payments created on
CPUchain network should be considered as final and complete after 1 minute,
no matter how much the payer sends for confirmation fee. Built on a fork of the
Bitcoin Core code, CPUchain aims to build free and open-source, community
oriented, self-governed platform. CPUchain doesn’t have any premined, pre-allocated funds to pay founders, developers, wallet service providers, or exchange
to compensate for building something on CPUchain. Instead, we believe anyone
can participate on a network and earn reward, build a platform, increase value of
CPUchain and pay themselves under fair and transparent, immutable network
consensus.

CPUchain whitepaper rev.0

CPUchain Core

Table of Content

1.

Introduction

2.

The main tasks of CPUchain

3.

Supply distribution

4.

CPUpower consensus

5.

Transaction scalability

6.

Ecosystem

7.

Technical specs

8.

Roadmap

CPUchain Core

Introduction
What is a blockchain and why it is needed for modern internet? Blockchain, which
literally means “chain of blocks”. In other words, it is a database, which in the literal sense of the word is a continuous chain of blocks and transactions and is stored
simultaneously on many computers. New blocks in this database chain are constantly being generated by volunteers. Each new created block contains a group
of recently accumulated and ordered records ( transactions ), as well as a header,
merkle root, bits, nonce, etc.
Blocks are small unit of blockchain and a collection of various transactions, Transactions that are recorded on public blockchain are any actions that users perform
on online network, whether shopping on ebay, paying bills, receiving a bounty,
etc. When a transaction is formed by a user, it is sent to the so-called mempool,
where it waits until it is being verified and stored to one of the blocks and it turns
into a “confirmed” state when a block is formed via competitive mining action, it
is checked by other participants of the network and then, if everyone agrees, is
connected to the end of the chain. Once this happens, it is no longer possible to
revert or modify the transaction where we consider the transaction is secure and
immutable.
The technology of the blockchain forces you to take a fresh look at the exchange
of values, documents, money, and services. It removes intermediaries and allows
users to directly interact with them. That’s why Bitcoin, the first working product
of blockchain, has no doubt of being the greatest invention comparable to the
discovery of the internet.
Some known characteristics of public blockchain.
1.

Decentralized

2.

Immutable

3.

Transparent

CPUchain leverages blockchain’s solution by adding security, scalability, and stability, which is essential and important in order to build a global currency and a
payment network for real-world use and wide adoption.

CPUchain Core

The main tasks of CPUchain
CPUchain [CPU] is a digital cryptocurrency, which is a direct descendant of Bitcoin or Ripple and is based on the ideas of decentralized P2P network from Satoshi Nakamoto, a founder of Bitcoin.
The main objective of CPUchain is to restore the direct, core purpose of using Bitcoin, cryptocurrency as a store of value and means of exchange.
Bitcoin once used to provide a functionality of fast and cheap global payment
network with a characteristic of decentralization without centralized issuer unlike legal tether or simple payment solution like Visa or Paypal. However, current
bitcoin network is suffering from 1. Network scaling issue and 2. Network distribution issue which makes Bitcoin or any other cryptocurrencies no longer valuable
as before.
Some other cryptocurrencies like Ripple or EOS tend to solve them via an alternative network consensus, however, those consensus algorithms are still not proven to solve centralization and security issues compared with the legacy POW
scheme.
That’s why CPUchain has improved upon Bitcoin by implementing CPUpower algorithm and Giga block solution to improve public blockchain’s well-known weak
point which is scalability and security. Without relying on side channel, side chain,
non-blockchain solution to complement the network scalability, CPUchain has
developed and adopted Giga block size solution, which was first proposed by scientists of Bitcoin Unlimited node, as an alternative of Segregated witness, lightning network proposed by Bitcoin Core and Blockstream company.
To enhance network security and stability, CPUchain uses CPUpower algorithm and LWMA difficulty adjustment rule for the coin’s main POW consensus.
CPUpower is an exclusive Proof-of-Work algorithm dedicated to CPUchain’s new
consensus. From the codebase of Yespower pow and Yescrypt hashing algorithm,
CPUpower enables CPU friendly and GPU, ASIC, FPGA resistant mining environment which makes possible for CPUchain to issue and distribute only for miners
who compute on commodity hardwares where the massive computing power is
not only limited to specific hardware vendors but for the people who owns and
uses computable devices from x86 desktop computer to arm-based smartphone
processors. Anyone with some surplus computing resources may be able to participate on securing the network and receive some bounty in coins as a reward.
CPUchain aims to be a sound money itself, with support of cutting-edge Giga
block scaling solution and CPUpower secure algorithm we believe as a complementary currency of Bitcoin, CPUchain can achieve its goal to become a global
currency which billions of citizen worldwide can use as a next-generation banking system where low sending fees, instant transaction speed is possible.

CPUchain Core

Supply distribution
To become a sound money and a store of value without any form of guarantee,
legal tether, commodity, security, debt, we make this happen as a form of opensource software without any kind of pre allocation of funds or any central authority.
To develop a new kind of currency it is important to have a prominent issuer and
supply distribution in order to keep its value and use them as a means of exchange. Modern virtual payments like Paypal uses fiat money to exchange the
value for buying goods, shopping on ebay, and security like stock implies an
amount of share of corporation where businesses use them to distribute their
annual income to major shareholders. Commodities like gold or silver, has its own
value because they have finite supply and clear use case.
CPUchain’s characteristics is more alike to commodities like gold than securities
or legal tether. Full supply is minted by a competitive cryptographic computing
activity to find blocks and verify transactions, generate nonce. Like gold or any other valuable commodities anyone can mine a cryptocurrency and trade, exchange
them as a price of something. However, this doesn’t solve a distribution problem
that gold and bitcoin is suffering from. Gold and Bitcoin is only cost effective for
mining when they are being mined by specialized hardwares that are exclusive
for mining, any they cost a lot of energy resources which are not eco-friendly and
waste of natural resources.
In contrast, minting of CPUchain doesn’t require specialized hardwares for mining and it doesn’t consume a lot of electricity like them. Technology are evolving toward less energy consuming path to protect our nature and addressing
toward the distribution problem necessary for a digital currency to achieve widespread, grassroots adoption. As one engineer working on CPUchain, if the mining
process is largely controlled by some specialized hardwares created by a far-off
foreign manufacture, the coin seems “distant”. Mining is an important way for
user to participate in a digital currency’s community and mining on commodity
hardwares , like even the small amount of hardwares like smartphones and even
raspberry pi opens the mining process up to a much larger group of community.

CPUchain Core

Another key component of CPUchain’s approach to addressing the distribution
problem is upholding a promise that originated from Bitcoin: that 100% of the
coins would be distributed via the public mining process. Every single coin is
both unique and identical, which forms an inherit value to be a currency. One
of the main characteristics of currency is that it is fungible, full distribution from
fair mining makes the coin unique and valuable from miners and the equality
of each coin makes users possible to exchange something for their homemade,
own mined coins. 100% of the total 105 million CPUchain coins will be allocated
via the free market mining process.
But there are several other coins that also build upon the Bitcoin codebase and
are also trying to address the distribution problem, what makes CPUchain’s distribution structure so unique?
Other cryptocurrencies often have pre-allocation funds or some coins that are
not minted via proof-of-work mining process. They often have pre-allocated
funds to sustain the development of that coin or having a different consensus,
reward distribution structure among pow to complement the disadvantages of
proof-of-work mining. For example, proof-of-stake consensus or masternodes
enable coin holders to mint coins without additional computing resources, so it
is often considered as eco-friendly coin.
Instead of allocating extra funds for development or implementing additional
consensus structure to benefit or complement existing pow consensus rules, we
have chosen to evolve the pow algorithm to adapt the features of them without
adding them.
Therefore, CPUchain will have total 105 million supply with fixed schedule of
block reward reduction. Every 2 years, miners will receive -50% decreased coin
rewards for mining a block, first 2 years miners will receive 50 coins per block,
then 25, then 12.5 on 3rd halving schedule. This makes CPUchain inflation resistant currency and those mined coins will be considered as rare therefore people
will find a reason to mine and hold.

CPUchain Core

CPUchain Core

CPUchain Core

Allocating Fund

POW mining 100%

CPUpower Consensus

We’ve developed and chosen CPUpower algorithm as our main proof-of-work (
PoW ) mining and block hashing scheme. CPUpower is an transformative algorithm of Yespower and is a proof-of-work ( PoW ) focused fork of Yescrypt password hashing algorithm, which in turns builds upon well-known Scrypt algorithm. Unlike former Scrypt or Yescrypt algorithm CPUpower is meant to be used
for PoW-based blockchains such as block headers and nonce.
Developing cryptocurrency the main reason that we’ve chosen CPUpower is
cause CPUpower is designed to be CPU-friendly, GPU-unfriendly, and FPGA /
ASIC resistant. In many years experience of developing FPGA bitstream software
to emulate over FPGA cards for mining cryptos, CPUpower is a superior algorithm
for combating specialized mining devices.
There are many PoW currencies exist including Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, Zcash
and much more and they are using many different proof-of-work algorithms for
computing hashes like SHA256D or Dagger-hashimoto, Yescrypt, Aragon2D, Lyra2v, etc. When we choose hashing algorithms among them, we look for “ASIC
resistance”, or “GPU resistance”.

CPUchain Core

What is ( or should be ) meant by that is limiting the computing advantage of
specialized Asic devices. For common algorithms like sha256 or scrypt it is normal that ASICs or FPGA take advantages in computing hashes or mining cryptocurrencies compared with commercial hardwares because they are meant to do
that.
Specialized hardwares can’t do other jobs unlike commercial hardwares, they
can’t play games or run word processors like normal computers. Instead, they
can only do mining cryptocurrencies in effective way. They may also consume
less electricity than commercial hardwares because they are utilized for mining
activity with old memory chips like ddr3 to lower the manufacture costs.
CPUpower achieves some point of ASIC resistance by disadvantaging specialized
hardwares, instead of utilizing the device for algorithm, we have utilized the algorithm to benefit more on cutting edge hardwares and devices. For example an
AMD Ryzen 3700X cpu combined with high frequency memory will achieve more
hashrate power than xeon server processors or nvidia titan graphic cards that may
cost more than a commercial cpu hardwares and have more cores to compute
but has lower memory frequency. CPUpower limits a power of multi-core computation to benefit small devices like desktop computers or smartphone devices.
Limiting multi-core performance limits GPU mining performance for computing
on CPUchain, Some pro-GPU and anti-ASIC algorithms benefits graphic cards
to establish GPU mining ecosystem for the cryptocurrency, although it may secure the network than cpu mining, it consumes more electricity than CPU mining ecosystem and their mining facility is centralized compared with pro-CPU
mining ecosystem, Imagine a large GPU mining facility compared with miners
mining a currency with their own smartphones instead of investing on graphic
cards which is meant for playing video games not mining cryptocurrencies and
form a large factory to consume more local electricity.
CPUpower also benefits small miners to mine more coins and form a large group
of eco-friendly mining community that raise the value of cryptocurrency. Some
group of desktop cpus or cluster of smartphone will be enough to mine CPUchain
and you have more choice of cpu vendor to choose, buy and mine with them.
However it is also impossible to estimate the number of cases of exploiting the
algorithm for mining on specialized hardwares, some pro-CPU or pro-GPU algorithms failed to achieve the original purpose due to some exploits, so we define
here if the case happens for CPUchain / CPUpower algorithm, we may update
and patch the pow algorithm to combat those attacks to be resistant again.

CPUchain Core

Transaction Scalablity

Almost every existing cryptocurrencies lack support on scaling blockchain network for real use case. This is due to political reason of regarding hardforks, or lack
of solution for increased size of transactions from smart contracts, or just a low
priority due to low volume of ongoing TPS for altcoins.
As we believe in self-sustainable cryptocurrency that can last for more than hundred years, we take the scaling issue seriously and thus we’ve implemented a
scaling solution that can cover up to 80K transactions per second, which exceeds
current visa’s 50k tps capacity.
If the cryptocurrency like Bitcoin or CPUchain meets the real use case and transaction demand, to replace simple payments, credit card, cash, or any other payment system, Blockchain network that doesn’t meet the tps scaling requirements
will be a thing of a past. Like the current OS differs from old computing platforms,
that are gone due to lack of computing support, Chains with small tps will be replaced with blockchains with higher transaction capacity.
CPUchain has extended its block size limit up to 1000 MB per block. Although it
is not possible to reach the full limit due to lack of parallel computing support,
CPUchain may be able to support hundreds of tps with node running on modern
computer or servers. It may scale more with support of segregated witness transactions or schnorr signatures attached on utxos.

CPUchain Core

Ecosystem

Our mission for CPUchain is to build free and open-source, community driven
, self-governed ecosystem under scaling, decentralized roadmap. As a modern
crypto currency, and as a non-ico, non-remine platform, support from community is essential. Therefore we define a win-win business model for CPUchain Core.
Coins may have an ICO or IEO in order to support devs, however, there is an also
risk of development discontinuation when devs spend their collected funds from
initial launch and this is considered as a bad strategy for coins that should continue the development and maintenance for more than decades. It is also possible
for exit scams to collect the money and run without any real development for the
coin happen.
Instead of existing ico business models, we define a new business model in aspect of long term, self-sustainable, and community friendly model.
Following the success of non premined crypto currencies like Bitcoin or Litecoin,
CPUchain help community to build on self-motivation of evolving the currency,
Users who aren’t professionals in mining but someone who has an ability of develop something for the coin may find a self-motivation under cpu mining environment. In short the dev can mine a coin and those who want to increase the
value of the coin may build something that can attract more users to evolve the
currency. Under free market process coin may grow its value, and with growing
size of the community, coin’s value may double.

CPUchain Core

Technical specification

•Name					CPUchain
•Ticker					CPU
•Algorithm				CPUpower [POW]
•Block time				

1 minute ( 60 seconds )

				
•Block
reward
					

50 CPU ( 50% decrease
on every 105m block )

•Halving Every 2 years

( Every 1,050.000 blocks )

•Total supply		

105,000,000 CPU coins

		

						
•Distribution

100% POW with no ICO or 		
						Premine, dev fee.

CPUchain Core

Roadmap

====OM
NV

OMNT
SCALING

In
progress

POW

Done

OMNV

OMNV

OMNV

OMNV

OMNV

ab
Developement
of Nodes

Developement
of Block Eplorer

Developement
of Miner

Developement
of Mobile Miner

Simple Payment
Solution

Web Wallet

Done

Done

Done

Done

On Going

OMNV

OMNV

OMNV

Developement
of Wallet

Developement
of Mining Pool

Developement
of Mobile Wallet

Done
Done

Done

Done

On Going

OMNV
Continuous
Maintenace WIP

Light Wallet

On Going

Github: https://github.com/cpuchain

Twitter: https://twitter.com/cpuchain

Medium: https://medium.com/cpuchain

Discord: https://discord.io/cpuchain

Reddit: https://reddit.com/r/cpuchain

Telegram: https://t.me/cpuchaincore

Homepage: https://cpuchain.org/

