Valobit
WHITEPAPER

Table Of Content
Executive summary

3

Blockchain; A transparent
approach to financial

5

Governance and regulation

Blockchain projects
and hacking 7
*Hack cases and how
they occurred
*How Valobit Intends to
solve the problem

Introduction 6
Coin Lending Service
*What it used to be
*What it is now
*How Valobit technology
is helping coin lending platforms
such as Coinbita.io

Valobit Token 13

*Multivendor online
shopping provider
*Instant utility offering

*What is Valobit token?
*Distribution and allocation

15

*Valobit wallets
Roadmap and Milestone

16

The target market
and why you should
participate 15
Disclaimer and Legal disclosure

Contact and support details

4

9

Other Uses
of Valobit 11

Valobit
Exchanges

investment

18

18

2

Executive summary
The blockchain sphere is such a promising one. However, the industry is
currently faced with some security challenges. Unscrupulous people are
always looking for ways to scam people of their crypto assets. There
have been several cyber scams since the popularization of the crypto
market. Some examples are pump and drop, price manipulation,
hackings, and the rest of them. The recent Twitter hack incident that led to
the loss of over $110000 of BTC is a wakeup call to everybody in the
crypto business.
The problem here is that 100% of companies worldwide are getting
attacked by hackers, and the average detection time is 365 days leading
to enormous economic and privacy damages. Similar attacks are
repeated against multiple targets before they are detected, understood,
and mitigated.
This is why Valobit Technology is here. It is an advanced cybersecurity
solution that will proactively identify hackers and distribute their proﬁle
information to the protected community over the blockchain. With this
solution, hackers will have no hiding place within the protected
community.
In addition to its cybersecurity solutions that Valobit intends to offer, it will
also be actively engaged in worldwide fulﬁllment warehouse facilities,
multi-vendors drop shipping method, decentralized blockchain digital
locker, and instant utility offering. These additional adventures make the
project highly scalable. The project has a highly interoperable protocol,
and that is why Valobit has been able to team up with several outstanding
projects such as Coinbita.io.

3

Blockchain; A transparent
approach to financial
investment
What is blockchain? It is basically a cryptographic database that is
maintained by the interconnection of computers owned by different users.
Each of these computers simply stores a
copy of the most recent and updated version of the database. These
computers are known as nodes, and their jobs are to verify new
transactions in the blockchain and add them to the database. These nodes
operate based on protocols, a set of rules that tell the nodes the conditions
to check before verifying a transaction and adding them to a database.
These nodes are rewarded for securing the network. That way, they are
dissuaded from attacking it for personal gains. The way it is set up, false
transactions are very difﬁcult and expensive to add. In contrast, valid ones
are easy to verify.
With this setup, it became very appealing to everyone, including the
ﬁnance industry. It is so appealing that central banks have started looking
at ways they can use it to digitize their national currencies. Facebook is not
left out as they are looking to create their own coin that will be used for
transactions worldwide. Financial institutions such as Intercontinental
exchange and ﬁdelity investments are also said to be working on services
that rely heavily on the blockchain technology

4

Governance
&
Regulation
Due to blockchain's ability to sustain itself by being supposedly
unalterable, there has not been any spelled-out need for governance and
regulation. So, for now, the industry is solely dependent on codes and
securities that sustains it. Even if it starts getting regulated, its only scams
perpetrated by fake projects such as pump and drop will be minimized.
Hacking and stealing of crypto assets, especially from exchanges, may
still keep happening.
Most countries that are looking into regulating cryptocurrency are majorly
doing that for the taxes. For instance, in Israel, cryptocurrencies are taxed
as assets. In Bulgaria, they are taxed as ﬁnancial assets, while in
Argentina and Spain, they are ubject to income tax. No government is
concerning itself with the technology behind the crypto and how it can be
safeguarded. Most of them are still
skeptical about it.

5

Introduction
What is Valobit?

Valobit Technology is a "one stop shop" for the delivery of cutting edge
institutional ﬁnancing, prime brokerage, and smart capital solutions for the
HealthTech industry, as well as a research and collaboration hub for healthcare
companies and projects involved in the ﬁeld of blockchain development.

What is the Problem?

Ÿ

More than $40 million in assets were
placed under restraint pending
forfeiture, and more than 30 Liberty
Reserve exchanger domain names
were seized.
100% of companies in the world are
getting attacked by hackers, and the Ÿ
average detection time is 365 days
leading to enormous economic and
privacy damages. Similar attacks are
repeated against multiple targets

Ÿ

before they are detected, understood,
and mitigated.

Our Solution
Valobit Technology detects, deﬂects,
and counteracts attempts at
unauthorized use of information
systems and gives your security
team an unfair advantage over
hackers.
Valobit Technology is the ﬁrst userfriendly security solution to provide
actionable intelligence
before companies are hacked.

Ÿ

Ÿ

Features

It is Versatile: The technology that
valobit brings is such that it can be
interfaced with several existing and
upcoming blockchain projects. That is
because most projects will need
security, some will be into ecommerce such as Coinbita, and they
will need to interact with Valobit’s
systems.
It provides you a stable currency:
Since several concurrent ventures
back the coin, the VBIT coin promises
to be solid and grow from strength to
strength.
It is practical: The VBIT project is a
very practical one. We all know how
its services are important in our
everyday existence, from securing
Blockchain projects to coin lending,
dropshipping, and fulﬁllment.
It is highly secured: A technology
that promises to help other
technologies with their security will
ﬁrst secure its own. Such is the case
with Valobit. We are adopting militarygrade encryption for our project,
services, and clients.
It is efﬁcient and Fast: Transactions
within our blockchain project is
efﬁcient and fast as we have identiﬁed
every bottleneck and ﬁxed them
before coming live.

6

Blockchain projects
and hacking
Hack Cases And How They Occurred
There was a time when everyone hailed blockchain as unhackable. Well, not
anymore. As hackers are busy honing their skills, several security holes are being
uncovered in the cryptocurrency and smart contract platforms. These security
holes are fundamental to how they were built.
One common example is the attack on a certain exchange. Sometime in January of
2019, the security team noticed that something strange was happening in
Ethereum Classic, one of the numerous cryptocurrencies that were being traded in
the exchange's platform. The security team had noticed that somebody was trying
to attack its blockchain and the history of all its transactions.
How did this hacker do it? The unknown hacker was rewriting the transaction
history through half of the network's computing power that he, somehow, gained
control over. That caused a situation known as double-spending, which is a
situation whereby the same cryptocurrency can be spent more than once. If the
exchange hadn't noticed early, the hacker was already targeting around $1.1
million. The exchange later said they didn't lose any money in the attack, but
another exchange lost around $200,000 to the hacker. To show how vulnerable the
system was to this hacker, he returned half of the money the next day to the
exchange he stole it from.
This is just one classic example of the series of attacks that the blockchain industry
has faced. It might surprise you to know that between the beginning of 2017 to early
2019, hackers had stolen around $2 billion worth of cryptocurrency assets, and
most of them had been from exchanges. If you think that a geeky kid with a hoodie in
one corner of a room is perpetrating these acts, think again. These crimes are being
wrought by sophisticated cybercrime organizations, and there is proof of that.
Chainanalysis did their analysis and told us that just two groups might have been
the culprit in the stealing of a combined $1 billion from exchanges.
What's worst is that these organizations are still active. They won't back down
easily because hacking and stealing in the blockchain sphere seems more
appealing than stealing from the traditional ﬁnancial system. That is because, in the
traditional ﬁnancial systems, transactions can be reversed, but that is not the case
in the cryptocurrency industry.

7

How Valobit Intends To Solve The Problem
Valobit has created a decentralized digital locker using the Ethereum blockchain
technology. Once users upload information, it is stored in a decentralized
manner and encrypted. Afterward, encryption keys are maintained and can only
be accessed by the end-user from their own side. By that, a user can upload and
store personal information. If the user wishes to share any of this information with
other users, it is trailed by a veriﬁable audit.
The advantages of such a system include:
·

Quick Turnaround Time: Since information and data are now digital,
the time needed to access or store the information becomes shorter. It is
known as the turnaround time.

·

Reduction of frauds: When information about the transaction and even
data are stored in a decentralized and encrypted manner, it cannot be
breached. Thus fraud cannot occur.

·

Central Location: In this system, data and documents are stored in
digital lockers that are in one location. Two-factor authentication, such as
OTP, also makes it more secure.

8

Coin Lending
Service
What It Used To Be
Before the inception of blockchain, loans were only obtained majorly from banks.
The bank uses a system of credit reporting to decide who gets what amount. The
management of credit scores by centralized systems such as Equifax, in the case
of the United States, has also been cited as a disadvantage for the system. One
time, Equifax was hacked, and the hackers revealed the credit information of
about 145 million Americans. It has also been said that these organizations
charged with maintaining credit scores often make the mistake of keeping
erroneous information.

What It Is Now
The advent of blockchain looks to change loaning as we know it. With blockchain,
a peer-to-peer loan is possible. This is faster, more secure loaning programs with
complicated structures. In the nearest future, this new peer-to-peer loaning
system might effectively replace loan pre-existing loan structures or even
mortgages.
The fact that the cryptocurrency sphere has easy peer-to-peer protocols and
indelible records of transactions also give it another huge advantage over the
traditional lending system.
The system has come to stay, and some banks are already buying into it. For
instance, the Spanish bank BBVA clinched the Banker's Tech Projects Award
because they adopted and utilized a blockchain corporate lending platform.

9

How Valobit Technology is Helping Coin Lending
Platforms Such As Coinbita.io
Coinbita is one of the foremost blockchain technologies that allows lending over
the blockchain protocol. Coinbita is gaining widespread popularity and adoption
across the blockchain world. How does it operate? The system known as VBITIA
gives lenders monthly interest rate to users when they lend their bitcoins,
As of today, its investors include Goldman Sachs.
Valobit is the backbone of coinbita. It offers the following services:

·Live Automated Platform:
The lending platform that
coinbita currently uses is
automatic and has a
seamless user experience. It
also has military-grade
security that comes with 256bit encryption.

·Regulatory Compliance:
We are keeping to the

·Insured Custodian:
Through its partnership with
valobit, coinbita is able to secure
its crypto assets. The platform is
SOC 2 Type 2 certiﬁed. The

regulations that are relevant to

insured custodian, which valobit

our niche. We are KYC and

provides, is topnotch because

AML compliant. KYC (know

its custody carries $100 million

your customer) and AML (Anti-

USD in the e-commerce portal.

Money Laundering) are
countries ways of ensuring that
the crypto space is not used for
committing crimes. As a
blockchain project aimed at
making the industry safer,
compliance is our top priority.

10

Other Uses
of Valobit
Multivendor Online Shopping Provider
Seeing how globalization is on the increase, whereby people can buy
goods from countries that are several miles away, it becomes important for
blockchain to be applied to multivendor shopping. This will improve the
response time and security of the process. Valobit is doing this through two
key methods:
i.

Worldwide Fulﬁllment Warehouse Facilities

The order fulﬁllment process is like a link between producers of goods and their
services. In this process, Valobit receives goods from the producers, processes
these goods, and delivers them to the customers according to the orders they
place. To start with, the customer will have to place their order. When that
happens, Valobit processes the order and delivers the goods to the customer.
Since there are warehouse facilities, delivering these goods to the customers
becomes faster.
ii. Multivendor Dropshipping
For this part of the project, Valobit will take orders from product manufacturers
and ship them directly to the customer. Valobit will be serving as a vendor that
serves orders to the supplier, informing them to fulﬁll a certain order to the
customer. That means that Valobit will not be coming in contact with the product
like in the fulﬁllment option. This will come in handy when the supplier is closer to
the customer than Valobit. In such a case, Valobit just takes the order and makes
it happen by passing it on to the supplier.
With these two services, Valobit ensures that e-commerce is perfectly blended
into blockchain technology. Owners of the coin can get products easily from
several parts of the world.

11

Instant Utility Offering
Volabit will not be made public through an ICO. The team has
opted for IUO because it has several advantages over ICO.
Here are a few differences between ICO and IUO.
The Valobit coin is a utility coin. By that, if you have the coin, you can use it to
purchase in the online shop payments that accept the VBIT (the valobit coin).
Valobit has a rich online catalog and marketplace. With that, investors can shop in
these market places and pay directly with VBIT.
Apart from using the coin for shopping, owning the coin makes investors
shareholders at Valobit. By buying the coins, you are buying Valobit's company
shares, which means you are entitled to dividends when after every public
declaration of proﬁts.
The coin accepts payments in ﬁat and 70+ coins such as BTC, ETH, etc.

12

Valobit
Token
What is Valobit Token?
This is the ofﬁcial token that will be used to drive the services in the innovations
that Valobit is bringing. Here are the details of the coin:
Coin Name: Volabit
Abbreviation: VBIT
Coin type: Utility coin
Total number of Coins: 1.6 billion coins.
Technology: The VBIT Coin is based on the Volabit technology.

Token Distribution and Allocation

Team: 18%
Project Reserve: 10%
Program: 05%

Advisors: 15%
Master nodes: 08%
Crowd sale: 43%

13

Listed Exchanges
Saturn exchange
https://www.saturn.network/exchange

Uniswap exchange

/ETH/order-

https://uniswap.info/pair/0x6f1c

book/0xb8366948b4a3f07bcbf14eb17

3e1cf54a8291948f79458ab930

39daa42a26b07c4

3ba6083a3b

Bamboorelay exchange
Ledgerdex exchange

https://bamboorelay.com/trade/

https://app.ledgerdex.com/#/app/order

VBIT-WETH

s/makertaker/VBIT/0xb8366948b4a3f07bcbf1
4eb1739daa42a26b07c4/WETH/0xc0
2aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083
c756cc2

Bitcratic exchange
https://www.bitcratic.com/#!/trad
e/0xb8366948b4a3f07bcbf14eb
1739daa42a26b07c4-ETH

Mcafeedex exchange

Switchdex exchange

https://mcafeedex.com/#/erc20?base

https://switchdex.ag/#/erc20?base=0x

=0xb8366948b4a3f07bcbf14eb1739

b8366948b4a3f07bcbf14eb1739daa4

daa42a26b07c4&quote=weth

2a26b07c4&quote=weth

Forkdelta exchange

Mooniswap exchange

https://forkdelta.app/#!/trade/0xb836

https://mooniswap.exchange/#/s

6948b4a3f07bcbf14eb1739daa42a2

wap?inputCurrency=0xb836694

6b07c4-ETH

8b4a3f07bcbf14eb1739daa42a2

14

Buying the Valobit coin on these platforms has been simpliﬁed as much as
possible. But if you still encounter difﬁculties with any of them, look up our video
on YouTube that explains how to buy the coin on these platforms.
Valobit Wallets
The exchanges listed above can also be used to hold the VBIT coin.
The Target Market And Why You Should Participate
From the services and large scalability that characterizes the Valobit project, one
can see that its target market is such a vast one. From other blockchain projects
such as coinbita, to individual blockchain users looking to engage in peer-to-peer
loaning, the list is endless.

15

Roadmap and
Milestone
(January 2018):
Integration with wholesalers.

1st
Stage

(November 2017):
Creation of database
system.

2nd
Stage

3rd
Stage

(November 2019):
Integration with IUO
technology and merged
online catalog.

4th
Stage

5th
Stage

(March 2020): Start IUO + IUOCART.COM.

6th
Stage

(January 2019):
Integration with worldwide
wholesaler's fulllment services.

May 2020):
Launch OF IBV method
of income.
(April 2021):
Launch of a decentralized
blockchain digital
locker system.

10th
Stage

(December 2021):
Start of worldwide
11th
fulllment warehouse Stage
facilities (online service).
12th
Stage

8th
Stage

9th
Stage

(March 2020):
Instant utility
offering.

7th
Stage

(December 2020):
Launch of mobile apps for
IOS and Android.

(June 2021):
Launch of DEDLS – Digi locker
delivered in android and web versions.

(June 2022):
Multi-vendor drop
shipping (on service).

16

Ownership of the coin enables investors to use the coin to pay for between 50 to
100 % of the company's services. Some of the company services are transaction
fees, manual arbitration of disputes, and provision of liquidity to brokers. Once
any coin is used to pay for company services, it will be withdrawn from circulation
and destroyed.
To get the coin, visit the listed exchanges above. Valobit technology token
receives payment from you. After conﬁrmation, immediately receives coins to
your web wallet and also mobile wallet.

17

Disclaimer and Legal disclosure
This whitepaper is provided for information purposes only as a courtesy. The
information contained herein is subject to change; no part of this draft document is
legally binding or enforceable, nor is it meant to be until it has been discussed,
reviewed, and revised by the board of directors, the board of advisors, and the
company lawyers.
Please do not copy or disseminate any part of this document without including this
disclaimer.
Apart from historical facts that have been stated here, most of the presentations
contained here are forward-looking information. These pieces of information are
based on projections, estimates, and expectations. They all represent the
company's intentions and plans.

Contact and support details
Contact and Support Details
Ofﬁcial website: https://valobit.io
Lending @valobit wallet site: https://www.coinbita.io
Dropshipping website: http://iuocart.com/
Address: Valobit Technologies Tallinn, Kesklinna linnaosa,
Maakri, TN25-10145, Estonia.
For more info, email us at info@valobit.io.

18

