Esports, Gaming & Video Entertainment Platform
Verasity is a leading company uniquely rewarding gamers,
viewers, and publishers through the Verasity Portal

2

CONTENTS
SUMMARY .............................................................................................................................. 4
INTRODUCING VERASITY ......................................................................................................... 6
THE VRA ECONOMY FLOW ..................................................................................................... 12
PRODUCT TOUR .................................................................................................................... 14
CORE TEAM AND CONTRIBUTORS .......................................................................................... 21
LEGAL APPROACH.................................................................................................................. 23
FULL RISKS AND LEGAL DISCLOSURES ..................................................................................... 25

3

SUMMARY
o

Verasity is the first platform to provide user generated Esports and casual gaming jackpot
tournaments supported by both Fiat (PayPal, Credit Cards) and Crypto, On & Off Ramp.

o

First Esports Tournament site where Pros play Amateurs in Tier 1 World Class Events with millions of
Viewers

o

Video gaming content monetized by Verasity Ad Stack and Proof of View (PoV) in both Crypto and
Fiat.

o

Enables tokenized rewards (VRA) as well as loyalty schemes within the video player via VeraWallet as well as staking for 36% per year.

o

Supports over 2 million video publishers with our SDK products (overlay on video players) to
increase engagement and revenues by 35%.

o

Verasity revenue streams include: Game subscriptions, Jackpot revenue commissions and Video Ad
revenues from Google & Ad Mob and the largest ad networks.

o

See our products at verasity.tv or read the short summary here:
https://verasity.io/documents/Verasity_One_Pager_June2020.pdf

“Verasity’s innovative Blockchain based video technology is of great interest to operators &
publishers across regions. I believe using the cryptocurrency powered Video Player with exclusive
OTT content, operator’s brand and reach, companies can significantly benefit by reaching their
Global user base with a new way to engage and consume video online. Specifically in APAC, this
new technology can change the way people distribute and consume content to create a
transparent and seamless experience” Akash Tyagi, Head of Strategy, Dish TV

4

BACKGROUND
Verasity is a leading company providing proprietary technology uniquely rewarding gamers,
viewers, and publishers through the Verasity Portal
In the wake of COVID-19 and the cancellation of activities such as travel, sporting events, eating out
and almost all outdoor activities and with employees being encouraged to work from home,
consumers are spending more time than ever at home using online services.
The popularity of online games has boomed
Verasity implemented Esports Fight Club and GameStore to monetize Verasity technology with ad
revenues and expand the wider use of Verasity’s cryptocurrency, VRA. Esports Fight Club and
GameStore have quickly taken off and we expect revenues will scale fast in this current economic
climate. Esports Fight Club and GameStore are not dependent on Google or Facebook or any third
party and we can, therefore, monetize gaming activities unlike mobile apps on Android or IOS which
are not allowed to provide real-world rewards. This gives Esports Fight Club and GameStore a
unique opportunity at a time when people are at home and trying to earn some extra income.
In 2018 there were 380 million viewers of Esports, and this figure is growing to 557 million viewers
by 2021. The Global games market generated over $120B in 2019 much of it driven by
complimentary gaming experience by spending real money within games in exchange for items.
Verasity takes this to the next level by providing rewards for watching, subscribing & winning with
VRA.
Our First Tournament was CS:GO with the best Pros in the world including NBK, Xccurate and Nifty.
Our Second Tournament, the PUBG Mobile Ultimate Warrior Showdown, supported by OKEx and
Tencent, included a thousand teams with thousands of players broadcast by Athena Gaming to
millions of viewers.

5

INTRODUCING VERASITY
There are many existing challenges within gaming, Esports and the online video space today.
Verasity’s team of media, gaming and blockchain experts has released a suite of tokenized solutions
that offer gamers, game developers, viewers, and advertisers a way to enhance their experience by
rewarding gamers, viewers, and creators for their engagement.
Through Verasity, gamers and game developers have access to private and public tournaments in
Esports and casual gaming, including CS:GO, PUBG, League of Legends, Valorant and many others,
where Verasity tokens are used to create tournaments and jackpots in live Esports events.
The Verasity ecosystem allows gamers to earn tokens for playing games and watching ads. Our
unique in-player wallet and proprietary ad-stack means advertisers can provide attention-based
rewards to engaged users programmatically.
Verasity is an attention-based platform for gaming, video, and entertainment rewards; committed
to creating and promoting a new economy where transactions are powered by Verasity for the
benefit of gamers, viewers, advertisers, and brands.

VERASITY HAS COMPLETED ALL THE MAJOR PARTS OF ITS ROADMAP
Verasity’s platform and infrastructure is fully functional and operating and already live.
“Verasity is an online video platform utilizing Akamai’s CDN networks as well as key technologies of
Akamai (as well as Verasity’s own proprietary technology). As an Akamai network partner, the
solution… has scaled to over 8PB per month.” Joshua Frost Niven, Akamai
Verasity.tv is the destination portal for Verasity that provides quick and easy access to all our
products in one place:
•

Esports Fight Club

•

GameStore

•

Watch&Earn

•

Our Apps

•

o

VeraWallet

o

Triviata

o

VRASplash

B2B Tools for publishers

Esports Fight Club
Verasity has built a fully functional Tournament site. We have launched Tournaments on CS:GO and
PUBG and are launching LOL, Valorant and others.
Players can invite others to play in private or public tournaments for VRA funded jackpots. Our First
Tournament was CS:GO with the best Pros in the world including NBK, Xccurate and Nifty. Our
6

Second Tournament, the PUBG Mobile Ultimate Warrior Showdown, supported by OKEx and
Tencent, included a thousand teams with thousands of players broadcast by Athena Gaming to
millions of viewers.

Our dedicated site Esportsfightclub.com includes:
•

Complete Active Tournament details

•

The ability for users to create their own Tournaments with prize distribution and rules

•

Tournament types including High Score, Elimination and Double Elimination

•

Ability to join any public Tournament and participate from VeraWallet with PayPal or Credit
Cards

•

User generated My Tournament page with history and active Tournaments

•

Dedicated user profile with transaction history, My Tournaments, APIs

•

Ladder brackets, Player avatars, Whitelisting creator accounts and more.

7

This allows players to:
•

Create public or private tournaments with VRA Prize Pools

•

Join tournaments and pay entry fees in VRA via your VeraWallet

•

Track progress on the leader board and view current prize pool value

•

Collect tournament prizes directly into your VeraWallet

•

Connect third party major tournaments to our platform via simple API

•

Utilize credit card payments for VRA entry fees via your VeraWallet

8

GameStore
GameStore is Verasity’s incentive-based gaming platform. Launched at the end of March 2020, the
first phase has hundreds of cool, casual games which can be played as a single player, a PVP game or
private tournaments can be created to challenge friends worldwide.
Users are required to buy credits with VRA via Pay to Play or subscribe for unlimited plays with one
of the membership packages. All GameStore Credits are purchased with VRA using Verasity’s
VeraWallet.
Verasity organise and run frequent public Tournaments for players to earn and win VRA rewards.

Watch&Earn
Watch&Earn products are live and publishers already utilizing our tech can be found at:
https://verawallet.tv/earn-vra (scroll down to click on each publisher and get rewarded in VRA by
clicking on the green trophy on the upper right hand corner of the video player). By clicking on the
green trophy, the user is directed to the in-built Verawallet which serves as the gateway to Verasity
tech.
The Verasity technology is now integrated into the following video players on publishers’ sites:
YouTube, Twitch, Vimeo, JWPlayer, Brightcove, Kaltura, VideoJS, Flowplayer, and Ooyala which
represents over 95% of all the video players utilized online (outside of China). This rewarded
module, integrated as an SDK into all major online video platforms provides rewards for actions
without changing the publishers’ workflow or the viewer’s habits or preferences as well as an inbuilt wallet.
As a result of these integrations, our unique player technology is already available to be integrated
on more than 2.0 million video publishers with their own sites with 550 million users and more than
110 billion monthly views. This means that Verasity can now provide this service to these 2.0 million
publishers and we are adding video publishers every month utilizing Verasity technology.

9

“Video is a powerful tool to educate, engage and entertain. Verasity’s video player solution offers
the perfect vehicle for viewers, publishers and content creators to benefit from the utility of
blockchain technology. I’m glad that Binance and Verasity are leading the charge globally.”
Changpeng Zhao (CZ), CEO & Founder of Binance

Our Apps
•

VeraWallet

https://verawallet.tv/ is Verasity’s official online wallet and entry point to the Verasity network and
enables viewers to safely store, earn, stake for a 36.5% annual return, and transact with VRA.
Within the VeraWallet users have a direct fiat to crypto gateway and can buy VRA immediately via
debit and credit cards.
Wallet holders have access to their main account, escrow account and staking account via the
secure desktop site. VeraWallet allows users to stake their Verasity tokens within our Staking
Rewards Scheme. The current program offers daily rewards of 0.1% of your staked amount, or
36.5% per annum https://verawallet.tv/stake-vra.
The VeraWallet is also accessible from within any compatible video player that has integrated
Verasity rewards SDK.
•

Triviata

Triviata is the first mobile app in which in-game rewards can be redeemed for crypto (VRA or BTC).
Triviata is already available on iOs and Android. It is also the first mobile game rewarding crypto
accepted by the latest ad networks; with over 16 ad partners integrated into the proprietary
Verasity ad tech waterfall.
•

VRASplash

VRASplash app for Android allows users to receive crypto news and ads on their phone lock screen
AND whilst staying up to date with the latest news from the crypto world users can earn in-app
rewards which can be redeemed for Verasity tokens.
All in-app rewards earned by users, for providing their attention, can be redeemed through the
VeraWallet for Verasity tokens.

B2B Tools for Publishers
•

Online Video Player

Verasity has a completely built-out and functioning online video platform for
broadcasters/publishers that require the entire OVP platform and rewarded module as well as an ad
stack for both desktop and mobile (the OVP live can be seen: https://technews.guru/).
The Verasity OVP has several innovations including:
1.
Running on the UDP transport protocol for all Chromium users when on Akamai CDN
(default to TCP when on other non-Chrome browsers)
2.

Broadcast to the cloud directly from a laptop rather than via a server farm.
10

3.

Tested to over 8 PB of data per month (confirmed by Akamai)

No other platform currently has the advantage of an integrated SDK and OVP components and
infrastructure that suits both content creators and large video publishers without any change to
their workflows. Verasity views this as a sustainable competitive advantage as we also have first
mover advantage without any direct competitors and can scale quickly from here with current
completed products and little further development.
Verasity developed a solution that both publishers and viewers seamlessly adopt without any
changes in workflow, habits or preferences. So Verasity will scale without any of the challenges that
are plaguing other video sharing platforms.
•

Ad Stack and Waterfall

The Verasity ad stack is unique in that it has solved timeouts for publishers that require a large
number of SSPs and ad networks on one stack - as many as 200 ad networks on one stack - (example
of a video publisher on our ad stack: https://thegas.net/ with brands like Jaguar advertising and the
mobile gaming app Triviata). Other ad stacks cannot handle more than a few ad networks at a time.
•

Proof of View (PoV)

Patent pending blockchain technology that produces accurate, secure and auditable audience
verification metrics (in development).

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT APPROACH
The Verasity platform has been in development since 2017 by a dedicated team of over 25 people.
The product roadmap is managed by the product management team that includes stakeholders
from Verasity as well as clients.
To see the updated roadmap go to verasity.io

VERASITY’S VIRTUOUS CYCLE
Gamers and Esports enthusiasts require VRA to access all the functionality of the GameStore. VRA is
purchased through exchanges or via our VeraWallet.
In addition, advertisers fund their VRA campaigns by buying VRA in exchanges and as they increase
their viewer engagement and scale, they purchase even more VRA to increase the size of their
campaigns.
Revenue generated from the GameStore and ads is used to buy back VRA, which means the more
players and viewers on the network, the more VRA is rewarded, the more revenue is used to buy
VRA from the market.
OUR VISION
Our vision is for Verasity’s platform to be adopted by gamers, Esports enthusiasts and advertisers
across billions of devices. Its underlying ecosystem, simple fiat on/off ramp and user experience has
all been designed to make access to Esports and casual games easy and enjoyable for both crypto
and non-crypto users.

11

THE VRA ECONOMY FLOW
VRA is a token used as a medium of exchange exclusively for the online gaming and video economy.
Transactions of VRA happen over the blockchain from within the VeraWallet. The wallet and token
are designed with the user convenience in mind, making it easy to use for the mass markets.
Demand for VRA
To access casual games and Esports, users are required to buy credits with VRA via Pay to Play or
subscription membership packages. All GameStore Credits are purchased with VRA using Verasity’s
VeraWallet which creates a demand for VRA.
The VRA token is also bought by advertisers to engage viewers and reward them for their attention.
Each time there is a call from Verasity’s network to display a video ad, one of Verasity’s
programmatic ad partners fetches an advert. When the ad is successfully viewed, Verasity is paid. As
the viewability and engagement are higher from Verasity’s rewarded ad formats, the advertiser is
happy and sees a higher performance from the advertising. The more viewers who join the Verasity
network, the more the revenue. The Verasity foundation uses a random amount of the advertising
revenue to buy back VRA from the market.
Viewers also may wish to buy VRA from the several exchanges to send to the staking wallet and are
rewarded interest in VRA.
Staking VRA
The Verasity economy adds additional incentives to hold VRA through the VRA Staking program
while also increasing the demand for the utility of VRA across a large network of video publishers
and their own communities, using the platform to reward VRA and spread awareness and take
advantage of the network effect.
Earning VRA
When viewers watch videos on a publisher’s domain, they can be rewarded with VRA tokens. This is
to incentivize viewers to watch videos on the publisher’s domain, generate new traffic, and keep
viewers engaged on the publisher’s platform. Viewers may also earn additional tokens by referring
additional viewers to the content. Viewers can earn VRA from, sign ups, sharing videos, referrals,
watching ads, playing games.
Spending VRA
Viewers can convert VRA for other cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin across numerous exchanges. The fiat
gateway within VeraWallet enables viewers to buy and sell VRA directly for fiat currency. Verasity is
also introducing partnership programs to allow VRA to be spent on goods and services directly.
Revenue Streams
The Esports Fight Club and GameStore generates revenue for Verasity through its pay to play and
subscription membership packages. In addition, Verasity takes a rake on the total jackpots’ values
rewarded in Tournaments.
Verasity earns revenues from ads published. Its unique ad stack waterfall means it can take
advantage of multiple ad networks to optimise its CPMs and fill rates.
Verasity also earns fees generated by transactional charges collected for the use of its network
12

through withdrawal fees.
VRA BUYBACK AND BURN POLICY
A random amount of net revenues and fees earned by Verasity in fiat are used to buy back VRA from
exchanges and burn VRA to reduce circulating supply. Verasity burned 2,135,033,305 VRA since its
launch. Verasity will inform the community from time to time after buy back and burn events.

13

PRODUCT TOUR
ESPORTS
In a huge move into gaming, Verasity expanded its GameStore tournament model to major Esports
games through its site Esportsfightclub.com, Verasity added the functionality of private, public and
third-party tournaments for major Esports games. World class tournaments can now be launched
from Verasity's Esports Fight Club. Players invite others to play in private or public tournaments for
entry fee funded Jackpots. Sponsors launch tournaments with or without pro players.
Pro Players Launch the Platform
With permission from Steam (Valve), Esports Fight Club provides CS:GO worldwide Tournaments
with Jackpots funded by entry fees or sponsors. Our first round of tournaments began on June 29th
with tournaments in Asia, Europe, and Northern America. We had global stars: xccurate, the
number one player in Asia; the mighty NBK, considered by many as the greatest player of CS:GO
and the Kingmaker of the French team; and Nifty for North America. These pro players tweeted
and streamed many times to their 2M fans about the Verasity launch creating brand awareness.
The PUBG Mobile Ultimate Warrior Showdown Tournament was launched with both OKEx and
Tencent as sponsors and Athena Broadcasting as broadcaster in China and worldwide to millions of
viewers. Tournaments will be launched monthly on the platform.
Exchange Sponsorship
Bitmart Exchange sponsored the first CS:GO event together with Verasity which brought
substantial awareness to Bitmart & Verasity. Instead of a simple airdrop, Bitmart got the benefit of
millions of Esports fans that are also Crypto fans. OKEX sponsored the PUBG Mobile Ultimate
Warrior Showdown Tournament Verasity. Verasity will be rolling this out with other Tier 1
Exchanges interested in expanding their brand awareness to the over 550 million Esports fans that
also have an interest in Crypto. Exchanges will be able to sponsor huge Esports events with Pros
and amateurs on the Esports Fight Club Tournament platform to get their message across to a
much larger audience then the current crypto audience but with an audience that is susceptible or
already in the crypto space. Consistent Exchange sponsorships over time will educate non crypto
Esport fans into crypto enthusiasts, thereby expanding their Exchange user base significantly as
well as that of Verasity's. Verasity is now in discussions with Exchanges eager to exploit this
strategy.
Esports legends
Esports Fight Club is in discussions with large agencies that represent the best Esports Pros and
teams in all the major games. Partnerships will be announced in due course.
Compatibility with Tencent, Riot, Blizzard, Steam
Esports Fight Club has licenses that allow it to promote large Esports events from the major gaming
publishers.
Esports Fight Club site features:
•
•

Fiat subscription and entry fees as well as crypto via VeraWallet
Bonus and Loyalty points
14

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Double Elimination with Loser Bracket
Round Robin Tournaments for any game
Automation of game server usage
Custom headers, game logos
Tournament Sponsors
VOD recordings
SMS notifications
Ability for single players to find same level matches/tournaments
Marketplace for gamers on the platform
Referrals and affiliates
Streaming features with the Verasity adstack
Proof of View support for the Verasity adstack

What makes us different?
Non-crypto users can seamlessly participate in USD valued Verasity tokens (VRA) without the need
to understand crypto. We are opening this up to the whole world. This will hugely contribute to the
organic demand from Verasity tokens worldwide. Although the underlying currency is VRA, users
can use Credit Cards and PayPal to On & OFF ramp in 130 countries of the world.
The Esports Fight Club tournament site offers dynamic functionalities that common Esports
tournament sites lack. Our users already benefit from the unique jackpot feature and can create
their own tournaments with cut-cloth rules:
o

Esports Fight Club will have its own team’s tournament map veto functionality displayed on
the user’s match information (very useful for FPS genre Esports titles such as CSGO or
Valorant). This feature will reduce the tournament creators’ workload and guarantees a
smoother experience for participants, partners and tournament owners.

o

From an organiser’s perspective, getting the correct information about tournament
attendees can be quite challenging. Not for Esports Fight Club organisers! Users’ actions
are rewarded by a website token system that will give players an incentive to help both the
tournament admin side and the platform. For example: uploading the screen of a certain
match result after a dispute or adding more contact details to their profile will give them
access to more tournaments, more content, and prizes.

o

Finally, a major feature currently lacking from most tournament websites is the ability for
users and teams to “Check-in” and show that they are “ready” on D-day, before entering
the server and playing. This feature will prevent a lot of no-shows, extra waiting time and
tournament organisers’ support issues.

While a few tournament creation websites offer mostly user-based experiences (Battlefy, ESLplay
or Mogul), Esports Fight Club is the first platform to fully focus on both the organiser’s and player’s
ecosystem for a shared and competitive journey.
Based on the findings from our tournaments and input from our Esports team, Verasity has
evaluated the best features available on current tournament sites worldwide and are building to
become the best in its class.

15

GAMESTORE
With the Verasity GameStore, you can play hundreds of cool, casual games at games.verasity.tv.
Play as a single player, try a PVP game or even create your own tournaments and challenge your
friends worldwide but from the comfort of your own home.
Users pay subscription fees or can pay as they go to access the gaming services and Verasity takes a
commission of the jackpot tournaments arranged.
VERAWALLET
The VeraWallet is the viewers’ entry point to the Verasity network and enables viewers to safely
store, earn and transact with VRA. Within the wallet, viewers have access to their main account,
escrow account and staking account.
Fund Campaigns
Video publishers and advertisers’ escrow VRA tokens to fund their campaigns and reward viewers
which build their audience, views, and revenues. The escrow guarantees that viewers are rewarded.
Learn more
Earn VRA
Select from participating VRA publishers, visit their site, watch great content, and earn VRA. Also,
discover sites where you can be rewarded for watching ads. In Verasity’s mobile apps, participate in
quizzes and games to earn VRA. Learn more
Stake VRA
Investors can choose to stake their VRA and transfer from their main wallet to the staking wallet.
VRA is rewarded daily back to their staking wallet. Learn more
Send / Receive / Donate VRA
VRA holders use VeraWallet to send their VRA tokens to any compatible wallet or to an exchange
that lists VRA. Learn more

16

VERASITY’S ONLINE VIDEO PLATFORM - UNIQUE ARCHITECTURE
The video player infrastructure is optimized for providing best in class quality video experiences, at
scale. Verasity’s video infrastructure utilizes several novel technologies for enabling quality streams
even at the edge, combined with the latest Internet protocol performance standards like QUIC
(Quick UDP Internet Connections). This is an innovative use of the secure Transport Layer Security
(TLS) and User Datagram Protocol (UDP) reducing buffering and network latency for viewers.
Viewers can access content from any browser without having to install any additional plug-ins or
player software. The video player technology has already been proven to work at scale, powering
over 8 Petabytes of video traffic per month.
“Verasity is a white label version of an online video platform utilizing Akamai’s CDN network
as well as key technologies of Akamai. An Akamai network partner, the white label solution
utilizes Akamai’s “media acceleration efficiency” solution which has scaled on this white label
online video platform to over 8PB data per month.”
Joshua Frost Niven, Akamai
The technology features developed today include:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

HTML5 Video Player Can run with or without Google IMA SDK
JS API interacting with our player embedded into any website
Built-in player wallet (Verawallet)
1080p / 60 frames per second full HD ready
Embedded technology making it available across any website
Lightweight and adaptive for mobile screens
Hight load clustered database with sophisticated bit data storage for advanced statistics
Back end database structure
Built-in notifications system
Third Party Publisher widgets
Referral system and social sharing features

CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CMS)
The Verasity CMS is easy to use for publishers to manage their campaigns and video libraries. This
includes both an online and desktop-based upload and management suite that enables creators of
all sizes to effectively run their content libraries. The CMS has the look and feel of current CMSs
publishers utilize for their own ad campaigns in programmatic advertising which makes it extremely
easy to navigate for publishers.
With multiple monetization options, the protocol enables multiple types of content to thrive, from
niche technical videos through to feature films. The Verasity CMS was designed to cater to the
individual. We recognize that every viewer, content creator, and audience is different and therefore
bring together multiple monetization methods which allows creators to monetize their content in a
way that makes sense to their audience.

17

CDN AND SERVER INFRASTRUCTURE
Verasity utilizes a custom-built online video platform which partners with Amazon and Akamai,
leading global CDN networks.
Verasity is a white label version of an online video platform utilizing Akamai's CDN network as well
as key technologies of Akamai. As an Akamai network partner, the white label solution utilizes
Akamai's “media acceleration efficiency (MAE)” solution which has scaled on this white label online
video platform to over 8PB data per month.
Using a CDN guarantees high playback quality, with low buffering, on a global scale also enables all
content to be securely hosted, stored, and managed on Verasity servers. Reliable video delivery
using a scaled and trusted network such as Akamai guarantees superior user playback experience
which is critical for mass adoption. If viewers experience delayed video starts, low quality streams
and long buffering times, they will not adopt a new platform, nor will they happily pay for content,
meaning that platform could never scale.
As stated earlier, although Verasity partners with Akamai, Verasity does not rely on Akamai
technology and is also compatible with Amazon (AWS) and Microsoft’s Azure.

BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY
Verasity built its platform and VRA token contract on Ethereum, with the smart contract address:
https://etherscan.io/token/0xdf1d6405df92d981a2fb3ce68f6a03bac6c0e41f

PROOF OF VIEW™ AND ON-CHAIN ANALYTICS & VERIFICATION
Verasity has a patent-pending system to securely verify audience metrics (views) in a way that is
publicly transparent and tamper proof. This system ensures the integrity of all elements of the
Verasity economy which relies upon audience metrics.
Video ecosystems of today are plagued by suspect and often fake view statistics. These statistics are
used to value the content or advertising, thus are being manipulated to generate fraudulent
revenue.
PoV™ is a system designed to securely verify content consumption on the ecosystem, in a way that is
publicly transparent and tamper proof. It is utilized within the Verasity economy to ensure the
integrity of audience metrics and therefore the integrity of the ecosystem.
To ensure an accurate and transparent PoV™, Verasity will implement publicly auditable logs. These
logs will contain all views and content recommendations along with anonymized viewer information.
The information will all be General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Payment Card Industry (PCI
DSS), and ePrivacy compliant.

18

A Merkle Hash Tree guarantees that the database has never been altered. In the hash tree, each
view’s event data is hashed before being combined with other hashes until a final top hash is
reached. Each top hash represents all the data stored in the specific chunk of the database.
The database itself is split into chunks. A new chunk is created each time a new block is creat ed in
the Blockchain. The top hash of the current chunk is added to each new block in the Blockchain. (See
the diagram below)
As this data is stored in a decentralized manner, third parties can prove that each top hash added to
the Blockchain is accurate and unchanged. This allows any third party to verify that the logs added
within each new block on the Blockchain have not been tampered with, changed, branched or
forked.
On 7 February 2018, a United States provisional patent application was filed for a system and
method for Proof of View via Blockchain (Application Number 62627285).
Verasity technology will be offered under the Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial- Share
Alike International Public License as the license stands as of February 16, 2018, see details below.

HOW POV™ PREVENTS FAKE VIEWS
The PoV™ system prevents multiple methods viewers may try to manipulate view counts and
audience metrics such as:
•
•
•
•
•

Automated repeated viewing of videos (looping views)
Attempting to load multiple videos in parallel
Loading videos in hidden windows / tabs
Attempting to manipulate analytics without watching content
Verasity or other party altering the views database

Only views from signed in viewers are counted
•

•
•
•
•

Within a video platform, views are a type of transaction. To provide accountability and
therefore transparency for transactions, a unique identifier needs to be allocated to all
parties involved. When viewers create an account, they are assigned an anonymous ID that
then marks the video views generated by that user.
Viewers who are not signed in can still view free videos, but these views are not confirmed
through PoV™.
A single user cannot make multiple views at the same time.
The majority of viewers are only able to truly watch one video at a time whereas some bad
actors may try to use multiple browsers, watching in parallel, to inflate view counts.
PoV will not count views when more than one video is running in parallel from a single user.

Confirmed streaming
•

•

For content to be viewed, the content file needs to be streamed to the browser. Through
Verasity’s PoV™ technology, while a video is being viewed the player will randomly be
required to provide information about the current frame of the video being viewed.
This ensures the content has been streamed and avoid bots that try to watch without
actually streaming content.

19

Player must be viewable
•

•
•
•

•

•

Through technology built into VeraPlayer, checks are made during a video view to ensure
the player is visible within the browser window and not scrolled out of view, hidden, shown
in background tab etc.
If a view is generated when the VeraPlayer is not viewable, the view will not be verified.
The suspicious activity requires a manual check.
While the above points outline some of the ways PoV™ technology will verify and guarantee
authentic views, the system will continually monitor for suspicious or unusual viewer
behaviour even if all the above checks are passed.
An example of suspicious behaviour would be a video being viewed by one user repeatedly
in a set period. While this is not necessarily a fake/invalid view, before additional views were
recorded as verified, a manual input would be required by the viewer to ensure they were
still watching. This manual input would be designed to avoid automatic/programmed
responses from being able to pass the check (e.g. reCAPTCHA).
As our PoV™ technology gains additional data through use, any common or high frequency
suspicious activities will be used to create additional, automated features in PoV™ to verify.

PoV™ data is publicly auditable and transparent
•

•

•

Verasity’s technology will use advanced methods to ensure only views verified by PoV™ are
counted. Views which are verified will be added to a publicly accessible database containing
anonymized data regarding the views.
Verasity will provide free, open-source tools to provide transparency and accountability of
the system. With these tools, viewers and third parties can review the data to ensure its
accuracy and credibility. Although view data is anonymous, individual viewers can generate
their own unique ID to verify views recorded for their ID are accurate and not manipulated.
To ensure that the data stored within the publicly accessible PoV™ database is bona fide
untampered data, all view data is sent to the Blockchain as well as to the Verasity servers.

20

CORE TEAM AND CONTRIBUTORS
The team are seasoned professionals with proven track records with high performing businesses in
the media, video and technology sectors. The core team have been involved in the project together
since 2017. The development team and management are full time and have been collaborating for
four years.

21

Verasity has engaged a number of experts in blockchain, online video players, advertising, marketing
and security to advise the project.

22

LEGAL APPROACH
Due to concerns around unpredictability and regulation (or lack of in many markets) the team have
treated the legal and administrative elements to setting up the project and raising funds very
seriously. Verasity appointed a legal officer to sit on the advisory team and work closely with the rest
of the Verasity Foundation advising best practices. Verasity appointed Ogier, a well-known and
highly reputable legal firm that has a dedicated Digital, Blockchain and Fintech team to advise
Verasity on the structure of Verasity Foundation and certain regulatory and other matters pertaining
to Cayman Islands laws. Verasity has also appointed BDBPitmans, a well-known and highly reputable
legal firm in the United Kingdom with respect to certain regulatory and other matters. To comply
with present and/or future regulation, Verasity Foundation is opting to apply the necessary
KYC/AML and accredited investor procedures during the token sale and to comply with all applicable
regulations including necessary sanctions and PEP checks.

GOVERNANCE AND ROLE OF THE FOUNDATION
Verasity Foundation will be responsible for ensuring the vision of the White Paper is adhered to,
funding the development of the platform and funding the support growth within the community.
Verasity Foundation will be conducting the initial sale of VRA and will thereafter be monitoring
Verasity to ensure the Verasity Platform is developed in accordance with the principles set out in this
White Paper. Proceeds raised from the sale of VRA will remain in the Foundation and be unlocked
based on predefined milestones agreed upon and validated by the Foundation. Verasity’s General
Counsel is a Supervisor of the Foundation and will validate milestones as well as the use of funds
from the ICO.
Verasity Foundation will provide updates to the contributors to the project regarding the roadmap
updates. This will include current developments, forecast vs. current and latest updates (updates to
the Whitepaper).
Verasity management will not be able to buy or sell VRA during the 20 days prior to the
announcement of the quarterly management reports to avoid insider trading. Verasity management
lock up period is over a 4-year period. Private investor lock-up periods are 9 months.
Verasity Foundation has made public its GitHub (https://github.com/verasitytech/docs).

VERASITY FOUNDATION, TOKEN HOLDERS AND VERASITY
Verasity Foundation is a foundation company incorporated in the Cayman Islands under the
Companies Law (Revised) and registered as a foundation company pursuant to the Foundation
Companies Law, 2017. Verasity Foundation's management will be carried out by its directors.
Holders of tokens are not entitled to appoint or remove the board of directors of the Verasity
Foundation. The Foundation does not pay dividends and is wholly set up to exploit the value of
Verasity technology to benefit its token holders and no other asset class. The Foundation acts as the
token generator.

23

Some Verasity products, improvements, platform technology and development are contracted to
and provided by third party companies. Patents, intellectual property and code are owned by
Verasity Foundation. Physically, the team is in the United Kingdom, France and Poland.
90% of the Verasity roadmap has been completed and the rollout of its products to publishers has
commenced, mitigating the risk of further development costs. Revenues are now being generated
and are expected to scale.
Verasity Foundation has endeavoured to conserve the value of the Token Sale proceeds and
attempted to limit risks associated with unstable cryptocurrency market prices. Verasity Foundation
achieved this objective by exchanging the proceeds of the Token Sale into either fiat currencies or
other assets with a history of price stability.
The Cayman Islands is well-known and an established jurisdiction in the international financial
marketplace due to its stable and predictable political and legal framework, as well as its tax neutral
status for international transactions. Verasity believes a Cayman domicile for the Verasity
Foundation will provide for a long-term period of stability. The Verasity Foundation will pay zero
taxes on the transactions of the Verasity Economy. The competent court for litigation will be the
courts of The Cayman Islands.
PRELIMINARY DISCLOSURES
The digital tokens described in this White Paper may only be used for enabling transactions
associated with viewing digital content through the Verasity Platform, and such tokens have no
intrinsic value and may not be redeemed except by a Content Creator in payment for viewership of
his or her work product through the Verasity Platform.
The acquisition of VRA involves a high degree of risk. Before acquiring VRA, it is recommended that
each purchaser conduct their own careful examination of all relevant information and risks
(including as set forth below and in additional documentation associated with the sale of VRA). If
any of the following risks occurs, the Verasity Platform and VRA may be materially and adversely
affected, including all VRA being rendered worthless or unusable.
While tokens may be traded through one or more cryptocurrency exchanges, there is no guarantee
of value, and the token may be delisted at any time that it does not meet the listing requirements of
the exchange. The cryptocurrency token market is immature, and there are numerous risks that
threaten the entire category, including but not limited to regulatory risk, the potential collapse of
Ethereum as a cryptocurrency, loss of the password key that enables access to a digital wallet, and
the potential for bad actors to attack and steal either the content on Verasity or the contents of the
digital wallets that belong to the members of the Verasity community, owners and its viewers.

24

FULL RISKS AND LEGAL DISCLOSURES
IMPORTANT NOTICE
PLEASE READ THIS SECTION CAREFULLY. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX,
AND OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S) BEFORE TAKING ANY ACTION IN CONNECTION WITH THIS
WHITE PAPER.
This document (the White Paper) is intended to present general information regarding the planned
Verasity System. In connection with the development of the System, sales of blockchain tokens may
take place in one or more proposed generation and sale events of VRA OR VRAB (Tokens)
undertaken by the Verasity Foundation Company Limited (the Token Generator) (collectively, the
Token Generation). Certain terms of this document pertain to potential purchasers (each a
Purchaser) in any such sale(s).
1.

RELIANCE

Any Tokens are offered solely on the basis of the information contained in the terms and conditions
of purchase and sale (Terms and Conditions). Potential Purchasers should disregard, and not rely
upon, any other information or representations given or made by any dealer, broker or other
person. No person is authorized to give any information or to make any representations in
connection with any offering of VRA or VRAB Tokens apart from those contained in the Terms and
Conditions. A potential Purchaser to whom such information or representations are given or made
must not rely on them as having been authorized by the Token Generator or any of its affiliates or
subsidiaries.
Statements in the White Paper are generally based on the law and practice in the Cayman Islands,
with certain specific statements based on the law and practice of the jurisdictions explicitlymentioned, in each case current at the date the White Paper was issued. Those statements are
therefore subject to change should the corresponding law or practice change. Under no
circumstance does the delivery of the White Paper or the sale of Tokens imply or represent that the
affairs of the Token Generator have not changed since the date of the White Paper.
1.1.

Purchaser responsibility

Nothing contained in the White Paper is or may be relied upon as a promise, representation or
undertaking as to the future performance or policies of the Token Generator. The Token Generator
does not make representations or warranties of any kind with respect to the economic return from,
or the tax consequences of a purchase of Tokens. Prospective Purchasers should carefully review the
whole of the token sale Terms and Conditions provided along with any token sale offer. They should
also consult with their legal, tax and financial advisors in relation to the following: (i) the legal and
regulatory requirements within their own countries for purchasing, holding and disposing of Tokens;
(ii) any foreign exchange restrictions to which they may be subject in their own countries in relation
to purchasing, holding or disposing of Tokens; and (iii) the legal, tax, financial and other
consequences of subscribing for, purchasing, holding or disposing of Tokens.

This White Paper is not composed in accordance with, and is not subject to, laws or regulations of
any jurisdiction which are designed to protect investors. To the maximum extent permitted by

25

applicable law, Token Generator expressly disclaims and shall not be liable for any and all
responsibility for any direct or any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any

kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or profits,
and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection with (i) Purchaser's acceptance of or reliance
on any information contained in the White Paper, (ii) any error, omission or inaccuracy in any such
information or (iii) any action resulting therefrom.
1.2.

Distribution and selling restrictions

The distribution of the White Paper and the offering or purchase of Tokens may be restricted in
certain jurisdictions. The White Paper is not intended as part of any offer, sale or distribution under
the laws of any jurisdiction governing the offer or sale of securities.
The receipt of the White Paper or the accompanying Terms and Conditions does not constitute an
invitation to a recipient to subscribe for Tokens in a jurisdiction where it is necessary to comply with
registration or any other legal requirement to make that invitation, or the use of the Terms and
Conditions, lawful. No such recipient may treat the White Paper or the accompanying Terms and
Conditions as an invitation to subscribe for Tokens, nor may such recipient use the Terms and
Conditions. More particularly, the White Paper does not constitute an offer or solicitation:
by anyone in a jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is not lawful or in which the
o
person making such offer or solicitation is not qualified to do so; or
o

to anyone to whom it is unlawful to make such offer or solicitation.

It is the responsibility of every person in possession of the White Paper and every person wishing to
apply to purchase Tokens to inform himself, herself or itself of, and to observe all applicable laws
and regulations of, any relevant jurisdiction.
1.3.

Forward looking information

All statements, estimates and financial information contained in the White Paper, made in any press
releases or in any place accessible by the public and oral statements that may be made by Token
Generator that are not statements of historical fact, constitute “forward-looking statements”. Some
of these statements can be identified by forward-looking terms such as “aim”, “target”, “anticipate”,
“believe”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “if”, “intend”, “may”, “plan”, “possible”, “probable”,
“project”, “should”, “would”, “will” or other similar terms. Such forward-looking statements involve
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual events or results,
performance or achievements to differ materially from the estimates or the results implied or
expressed in such forward-looking statements.
Further, the Token Generator disclaims any responsibility to update any of those forward-looking
statements or publicly announce any revisions to those forward-looking statements to reflect future
developments, events or circumstances, even if new information becomes available or other events
occur in the future.
2.

DISCLOSURE SCHEDULE

The acquisition of Tokens involves a high degree of risk. Before acquiring Tokens, it is recommended
that each Purchaser conduct its own careful examination of all relevant information and risks about
the Token Generator, Verasity Platform and Tokens and, specifically, the disclosures and risk factors
26

set out below. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Verasity Platform, Token and
Purchaser's Tokens may be materially and adversely affected, including the Purchaser's Token being
rendered worthless or unusable.
2.1.

Disclosures regarding the White Paper
2.1.1.

Accuracy of information, no consent of parties referenced in White Paper

This White Paper includes market and industry information and forecasts that have been
obtained from internal surveys, reports and studies, where appropriate, as well as market
research, publicly available information and industry publications. Such surveys, reports,
studies, market research, publicly available information and publications generally state that
the information that they contain has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable,
but there can be no assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of such included
information.
Save for the Token Generator and its respective directors, executive officers and employees,
no person has provided his or her consent to the inclusion of his or her name and/or other
information attributed or perceived to be attributed to such person in connection therewith
in the White Paper and no representation, warranty or undertaking is or purported to be
provided as to the accuracy or completeness of such information by such person and such
persons shall not be obliged to provide any updates on the same. Neither the Token
Generator nor Verasity Technology (Cayman) have conducted any independent review of
the information extracted from third party sources, verified the accuracy or completeness of
such information, or ascertained the underlying economic assumptions relied upon therein.
Consequently, neither Token Generator nor its directors, executive officers and employees
acting on its behalf makes any representation or warranty as to the accuracy or
completeness of such information and shall not be obliged to provide any updates on the
same
2.1.2

Terms used

To facilitate a better understanding of Tokens being offered for purchase by the Token
Generator, and the businesses and operations of the Token Generator, certain technical
terms and abbreviations, as well as, in certain instances, their descriptions, have been used
in the White Paper. These descriptions and assigned meanings should not be treated as
being definitive of their meanings and may not correspond to standard industry meanings or
usage.
Words importing the singular shall, where applicable, include the plural and vice versa and
words importing the masculine gender shall, where applicable, include the feminine and
neuter genders and vice versa. References to persons shall include corporations.
2.1.3

Restrictions on distribution and dissemination of White Paper

The distribution or dissemination of the White Paper or any part thereof may be prohibited
or restricted by the laws, regulatory requirements and rules of any jurisdiction. In the case
where any restriction applies, you are to inform yourself about, and to observe, any
restrictions which are applicable to your possession of the White Paper or such part thereof
(as the case may be) at your own expense and without liability to the Token Generator.

27

Persons to whom a copy of the White Paper has been distributed or disseminated, provided
access to or who otherwise have the White Paper in their possession shall not circulate it to
any other persons, reproduce or otherwise distribute the White Paper or any information
contained herein for any purpose whatsoever nor permit or cause the same to occur.
2.1.4

Language of White Paper

This White Paper may have been prepared in multiple languages. In the event of any
inconsistencies between one version and another, the English language version shall prevail.
2.2

Disclosures regarding Tokens
2.2.1

Token is a utility token

Tokens are digital utility tokens that afford Token holders to access the Verasity Platform
and/or execute certain functions on the Verasity Blockchain. Tokens do not represent a loan
to Token Generator, nor do they provide Purchaser with any ownership or other interest in
or to Token Generator. For greater certainty, the purchase of Tokens does not provide
Purchaser with any form of ownership right or other interest in or to Token Generator or
Verasity or its present or future assets and revenues, including, but not limited to, any
voting, distribution, redemption, liquidation, revenue sharing, proprietary (including all
forms of intellectual property), or other financial or legal rights.
2.2.2

Tokens are non-refundable

Other than instances described in the Terms and Conditions, if any, Token Generator is not
obliged to provide Token holders with a refund for any reason, and Token holders will not
receive money or other compensation in lieu of a refund. Statements set out in the White
Paper are merely expressions of the Token Generator's objectives and desired work plan to
achieve those objectives. and no promises of future performance or price are or will be
made in respect to Tokens, including no promise of inherent value, and no guarantee that
Tokens will hold any particular value.
2.2.3

Tokens are provided on an “as is” basis

Tokens are provided on “as is” basis. The Token Generator and Verasity and each of their
respective directors, officers, employees, shareholders, affiliates and licensors make no
representations or warranties of any kind, whether express, implied, statutory or otherwise
regarding Tokens, including any warranty of title, merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose or any warranty that Tokens and Verasity Platform will be uninterrupted, error-free
or free of harmful components, secure or not otherwise lost or damaged. Except to the
extent prohibited by applicable law, the Token Generator and Verasity and each of their
respective directors, officers, employees, shareholders, affiliates and licensors disclaim all
warranties, including any implied warranties of merchantability, satisfactory quality, fitness
for a particular purpose, non- infringement, or quiet enjoyment, and any warranties arising
out of any course of dealings, usage or trade.
2.2.4

Not an offering of securities, commodities or swaps

The sale of Tokens and Tokens themselves are not securities, commodities, swaps on either
securities or commodities, or a financial instrument of any kind. Purchases and sales of
Tokens are not subject to the protections of any laws governing those types of financial
instruments. This White Paper and all other documents referred to in the White Paper
28

including the Terms and Conditions do not constitute a prospectus or offering document,
and are not an offer to sell, nor the solicitation of an offer to buy an investment, a security,
commodity, or a swap on either a security or commodity.
2.2.5

Non-Investment purposes

Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that Purchaser is not purchasing Tokens for purposes of
investment, speculation, as some type of arbitrage strategy, for immediate resale or other
financial purposes. Tokens are not designed for investment purposes and should not be
considered as a type of investment.
2.3

Tokens may have no value

3.

FORCE MAJEURE

The Token Generation and the performance of the Token Generator’s activities set out in White
Paper development roadmap may be interrupted, suspended or delayed due to force majeure
events. For the purposes of the White Paper, a force majeure event shall mean any extraordinary
event or circumstances which could not be prevented by Token Generator and shall include:
hardware, software or other utility failures, changes in market forces or technology, software or
smart contract bugs, changes in blockchain-related protocols, acts of nature, wars, armed conflicts,
mass civil disorders, industrial actions, epidemics, lockouts, slowdowns, prolonged shortage or other
failures of energy supplies or communication service, acts of municipal, state or federal
governmental agencies or other circumstances beyond Token Generator's control, which were not in
existence at the time of Token Generation. Purchaser understands and agrees that Token Generator
shall not be liable and disclaims all liability to Purchaser in connection with a force majeure event.
4.

INSURANCE

Unlike bank accounts or accounts at financial institutions, Tokens are uninsured unless you
specifically obtain private insurance to insure them. Thus, in the event of loss or loss of utility value,
there is no public insurer or private insurance arranged by Token Generator to offer recourse to
Purchaser.
5.

GOVERNMENTAL DISCLOSURES

5.1.

Risk of unfavorable regulatory action in one or more jurisdictions

The regulatory status of cryptographic tokens, digital assets, and blockchain technology is
undeveloped, varies significantly among jurisdictions and is subject to significant uncertainty. It is
possible that certain jurisdictions may adopt laws, regulations, policies or rules directly or indirectly
affecting the Bitcoin and Ethereum network, or restricting the right to acquire, own, hold, sell,
convert, trade, or use Tokens.
Developments in laws, regulations, policies or rules may alter the nature of the operation of the
blockchain network upon which Tokens are dependent. There can be no assurance that
governmental authorities will not examine the operations of the Token Generator and Verasity
and/or pursue enforcement actions against the Token Generator and Verasity. All of this may subject
the Token Generator and Verasity to judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause the Token
Generator and Verasity to restructure their operations and activities or to cease offering certain
products or services, all of which could harm the Token Generator and Verasity’s reputation or lead
to higher operational costs, which may, in turn, have a material adverse effect on Tokens and/or the
development of the Verasity Platform.
29

5.2.

Purchaser bears responsibility of legal categorization

There is a risk that Tokens might be considered a security in certain jurisdictions, or that they
might be considered to be a security in the future. The Token Generator does not provide any
warranty or guarantee as to whether Tokens will be a security in the jurisdiction of the Purchaser.
Each Purchaser will bear all consequences of Tokens being considered a security in their respective
jurisdiction. Every Purchaser is responsible to confirm if the acquisition and/or disposal of Tokens is
legal in its relevant jurisdiction, and each Purchaser undertakes not to use Tokens in any jurisdiction
where doing so would be unlawful. If a Purchaser establishes that the purchase or use of Tokens is
not legal in its jurisdiction, it should not acquire Tokens and immediately stop using or possessing
Tokens. Acquiring Tokens in exchange for cryptocurrencies will most likely continue to be scrutinized
by various regulatory bodies around the world, which may impact the usage of Tokens. The legal
ability of the Token Generator to provide or support Tokens in some jurisdictions may be eliminated
by future regulation or legal actions. In the event the Token Generator determines that the purchase
or usage of Tokens is illegal in a certain jurisdiction, the Token Generator may cease operations in
that jurisdiction, or adjust Tokens or the Verasity Platform in a way to comply with applicable law.
5.3.

Purchaser bears responsibility for complying with transfer restrictions

Tokens may be placed on third-party exchanges, giving future purchasers and viewers an
opportunity to openly buy Tokens. A user seeking to enter the Verasity Platform following the Token
Generation will have to buy Tokens on such exchanges. Conversely, Tokens may be sold on such
exchanges if the holder of Tokens would like to exit the Verasity Platform ecosystem. Existing laws
on the circulation of securities in certain countries, such as the United States of America, Canada and
Singapore, may prohibit the sale of Tokens to the residents of those countries. When buying Tokens,
Purchaser should be aware of the restrictions on their subsequent sale.
6.

GENERAL SECURITY RISKS

6.1.

Risk of theft and hacking

Token generation events and initial coin offerings are often targeted by hackers and bad actors.
Hackers may attempt to interfere with the Purchaser's private key storage device or digital wallet
Digital Wallet, the Verasity Blockchain or the availability of Tokens in any number of ways, including
without limitation denial of service attacks, Sybil attacks, spoofing, smurfing, malware attacks, or
consensus-based attacks. Any such attack may result in theft of Purchaser's Tokens.
6.2.

Private keys

Tokens purchased by Purchaser may be held by Purchaser in Purchaser’s digital wallet or vault,
which requires a private key, or a combination of private keys, for access. Accordingly, loss of
requisite private key(s) associated with Purchaser’s digital wallet or vault storing Tokens will result in
loss of such Tokens. Moreover, any third party that gains access to such private key(s), including by
gaining access to login credentials of a hosted wallet or vault service Purchaser uses, may be able to
misappropriate Purchaser’s Tokens. Token Generator is not responsible for any such losses.
6.3.

Exchange risks

If Purchaser sends cryptocurrencies to the Token Generator from an exchange or an account that
Purchaser does not control, Tokens will be allocated to the account that has sent such

30

cryptocurrency; therefore, Purchaser may never receive or be able to recover Purchaser’s Tokens.
Furthermore, if Purchaser chooses to maintain or hold Tokens through a cryptocurrency exchange
or other third party, Purchaser’s Tokens may be stolen or lost.
6.4.
Risk of incompatible wallet services
The wallet or wallet service provider used for the storage of Tokens has to be technically compatible
with Tokens. The failure to assure this may result in the Purchaser not being able to gain access to its
Tokens.
6.5.
Risk of weaknesses or exploitable breakthroughs in the field of cryptography
Advances in cryptography, or other technical advances such as the development of quantum
computers, could present risks to cryptocurrencies, Ethereum and Tokens, which could result in the
theft or loss of Tokens.
6.6.

Internet transmission risks

There are risks associated with using Tokens including, but not limited to, the failure of hardware,
software, and internet connections. The Token Generator shall not be responsible for any
communication failures, disruptions, errors, distortions or delays you may experience when using
the Verasity Platform and Tokens, howsoever caused. Transactions in cryptocurrencies may be
irreversible, and, accordingly, losses due to fraudulent or accidental transactions may not be
recoverable. cryptocurrency transactions are deemed to be made when recorded on a public ledger,
which is not necessarily the date or time when the transaction is initiated.
7.

VERASITY PLATFORM DISCLOSURES

7.1.

No guarantee that Verasity Blockchain will be developed

Purchaser acknowledges, understands and agrees that Purchaser should not expect and there is no
guarantee or representation or warranty by Token Generator that:
(a) the Verasity Platform will ever be adopted;
(b) the Verasity Platform will be adopted as developed by Token Generator and not in a
different
or modified form;
(c) a blockchain utilizing or adopting the Token Generator will ever be launched; and
(d) a blockchain will ever be launched with or without changes to the Verasity Platform and
with or without a distribution matching the fixed balances of the initial tokens distributed
under the Token Sale.
7.2.
Risks associated with the Verasity and Ethereum blockchains and associated software
and/or infrastructure.
(a)
Malfunctions - The initial iteration of the Tokens are based on the Ethereum
blockchain. As such, any malfunction, unintended function or unexpected functioning of the
Ethereum protocol may cause Tokens and/or the Verasity Platform to malfunction or
function in an unexpected or unintended manner.

31

(b)
Bugs and weaknesses - The Ethereum blockchain rests on open source software, and
accordingly there is the risk that the token smart contract pertaining to the initial iteration of
Tokens may contain intentional or unintentional bugs or weaknesses which may negatively
affect Tokens or result in the loss or theft of Tokens or the loss of ability to access or control
Tokens. In the event of such a software bug or weakness, there may be no remedy and
Token holders are not guaranteed any remedy, refund or compensation.
(c)
Delays and congestions - On the Ethereum blockchain (which is used for
the Token Sale) timing of block production is determined by proof of work so block
production can occur at random times. For example, Ether contributed to the Verasity
Blockchain in the final seconds of a distribution period may not get included for that period.
Purchaser acknowledges and understands that the Ethereum blockchain may not include the
Purchaser’s transaction at the time Purchaser expects and Purchaser may not receive Tokens
the same day Purchaser sends Ether. The Ethereum blockchain is prone to periodic
congestion during which transactions can be delayed or lost. Individuals may also
intentionally spam the Ethereum network in an attempt to gain an advantage in purchasing
cryptographic tokens. Purchaser acknowledges and understands that Ethereum block
producers may not include Purchaser’s transaction when Purchaser wants, or Purchaser’s
transaction may not be included at all.
7.3.

Irreversible nature of blockchain transactions

Transactions involving Tokens that have been verified, and thus recorded as a block on the
blockchain, generally cannot be undone. Even if the transaction turns out to have been in error, or
due to theft of a user's Token, the transaction is not reversible. Further, at this time, there is no
governmental, regulatory, investigative, or prosecutorial authority or mechanism through which to
bring an action or complaint regarding missing or stolen cryptocurrencies. Consequently, the Token
Generator may be unable to replace missing Tokens or seek reimbursement for any erroneous
transfer or theft of Tokens.
7.4.

Amendments to protocol

The development team and administrators of the source code for Ethereum blockchain or the
Verasity Blockchain could propose amendments to such network's protocols and software that, if
accepted and authorized, or not accepted, by the network community, could adversely affect the
supply, security, value, or market share of Tokens.
7.5.

Risk of mining attacks

As with other decentralized cryptocurrencies, the Ethereum blockchain, which is used for the initial
tokens sold under the Token Sale, is susceptible to mining attacks, including but not limited to
double-spend attacks, majority mining power attacks, “selfish-mining” attacks and race condition
attacks. Any successful attack presents a risk to Tokens, including the expected proper execution and
sequencing of Tokens and Ethereum contract computations in general. Despite the efforts of the
Token Generator and Ethereum Foundation, the risk of known or novel mining attacks exists. Mining
attacks, as described above, may also target other blockchain networks, with which Tokens interact
with and consequently Tokens may be impacted also in that way to the extent described above.
8.

TOKEN GENERATOR DISCLOSURES
32

Because Tokens confer no governance rights of any kind with respect to the Token Generator, all
decisions involving the Token Generator’s products or services within the platform or Token
Generator itself will be made by Token Generator at its sole discretion. These decisions could
adversely affect the platform and the utility of any Token you own.
8.1.

Dependence on management team

The ability of the Verasity Platform project team, which is responsible for maintaining competitive
position of the Verasity Platform, is dependent to a large degree on the services of a senior
management team. The loss or diminution in the services of members of such senior management
team or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional senior management personnel could
have a material adverse effect on the Verasity Platform. Competition for personnel with relevant
expertise is intense due to the small number of qualified individuals, and this competition may
seriously affect the Token Generator's ability to retain its existing senior management and attract
additional qualified senior management personnel, which could have a significant adverse impact on
the Verasity Platform.
8.2.

Risks related to reliance on third parties

Even if completed, the Verasity Platform will rely, in whole or partly, on third-parties to adopt and
implement it and to continue to develop, supply, and otherwise support it. There is no assurance or
guarantee that those third-parties will complete their work, properly carry out their obligations, or
otherwise meet anyone’s needs, any of which might have a material adverse effect on the Verasity
Platform.
8.3.

Insufficient interest in the Verasity Platform and Tokens

It is possible that the Verasity Platform or Tokens will not be used by a large number of individuals,
businesses and organizations and that there will be limited public interest in the creation and
development of its functionalities. Such a lack of interest could impact the development of the
Verasity Platform.
8.4.

Verasity Platform development risks

The development of the Verasity Platform and/or Verasity Blockchain may be abandoned for several
reasons, including lack of interest from the public, insufficient funding, insufficient commercial
success or prospects or departure of key personnel.
8.5.

Changes to Verasity Platform

The Verasity Platform is still under development and may undergo significant changes over time.
Although the Token Generator and Verasity intend for the Verasity Platform to have the features
and specifications set forth in the White Paper, changes to such features and specifications may be
made for any number of reasons, any of which may mean that the Verasity Platform does not meet
expectations of the Purchaser.
8.6.

Other projects

33

The Platform may give rise to other, alternative projects, promoted by parties that are affiliated or
unaffiliated with the Token Generator and Verasity, and such projects may provide no benefit to the
Verasity Platform.
8.7.

Disclosures relating to conflicts of interest

Any of the Token Generator and Verasity may be engaged in transactions with related parties and
conflicts of interest may arise, potentially resulting in the conclusion of transactions on terms not
determined by market forces.
9.

TOKEN PURCHASES

Purchases of Tokens should be undertaken only by individuals, entities, or companies that have
significant experience with, and understanding of, the usage and intricacies of cryptographic tokens,
including Ether, and blockchain based software systems. Purchaser should have a functional
understanding of storage and transmission mechanisms associated with other cryptographic tokens.
While the Token Generator will be available to assist purchasers of Tokens during the sale, the Token
Generator will not be responsible in any way for loss of BTC, ETH or Tokens resulting from actions
taken by, or omitted by purchasers. If you do not have such experience or expertise, then you should
not purchase Tokens or participate in the sale of Tokens. Cryptographic tokens such as Tokens are a
new and untested technology. In addition to the risks included above, there are other risks
associated with your purchase, possession and use of Tokens, including unanticipated risks. Such
risks may further materialize as unanticipated variations or combinations of the risks discussed
above.

Definitions
Creator: An individual, Corporate Video Publisher or Broadcaster who creates or owns video content
to share on their own online video channel to generate both views and revenue from their audience.
In this document Creator and Publisher are used interchangeably
CDN: Content Distribution Network, or a distributed network of servers that consumers connect to
in order to receive video. The servers are normally positioned close to the end user and are normally
deployed at scale to provide higher quality video experiences
Digital Wallets: Desktop Application wallet and Web wallet with an API into Player, both used to
hold VERA
Economy: Verasity ecosystem in which Vera, the Verasity token, is utilized for transactions
Management: Core team listed in this White paper
OVP: Online Video Platform including uploader, player and CDN network
Publisher: A company that distributes video content across multiple channels and mediums to
maximize both views and revenue from their audience. Typically works with multiple creators who
contribute to their content library
Platform: The combined suite of technology and products that power the Verasity Video Rewarded
Module and online video platform and components
Proof of View (PoV™): Proof of View implementation on the Blockchain and patent pending as
further described in the “Proof of View” section below
Verasity Foundation: Verasity Foundation Company Limited, a Cayman Islands foundation company
registered under the Cayman Islands Foundation Companies Law, 2017, which has been
incorporated to support the Verasity Economy and Platform as per this white paper
34

VeraPlayer: Video Player, Uploader, CDN and components that make up the online video platform, a
technology licensed by Verasity and to be made available to the Verasity community and economy.
This technology is already operating and available for implementation
VeraWallet: Web based token wallet designed to allow VRA holders to top up their accounts, stake
VRA or withdraw VRA to other wallets
VRA: A cryptographically secured digital utility token which will be created and used within the
Verasity Video Sharing Ecosystem and Economy and verified on the Verasity Blockchain
Verasity: See Verasity Foundation
Please click VeraWallet for specific terms related to the use of the VeraWallet and click Verawallet Staking for specific
terms related to Verasity staking.

35

