PoST White Paper

Authors:
Douglas Pike, Patrick Nosker, David Boehm, Daniel Grisham, Steve Woods, and Joshua Marston

​A time-accepted periodic proof factor in a nonlinear distributed consensus

Abstract
A purely distributed consensus in an efficient digital currency would enable a nearly instant
and nearly free transaction system across the globe; independent of border, nation,
government or bank.
We herein propose a time-accepted nonlinear consensus that maintains the efficiencies of
Proof-of-Stake, while increasing the distribution and security of the consensus system with a
diminishing probability to find a proof and receive reward over time. This is achieved via a
periodic time-acceptance function that is proportional to the coins held and relative to
network strength. This time-acceptance model ensures that relatively active staking
maximizes reward and probability to form consensus via proof. This incentivizes direct and
active protection of the network. Furthermore, voluntary participation in the network is
driven by an inflation targeted interest rate that is inversely proportional to network
strength. This increasingly rewards nodes which consistently reinforce network security. This
is in addition to a time-diminishing inflation rate that is proportional to network strength and
active participation in reaching consensus, and relative to the Proof-of-Work distributed
initial supply. A combination of costs and rewards favors direct participation in the
protection of the consensus, providing enhanced security, equability, and distribution of
both consensus and currency over time.

1

Introduction
Centralized to Distributed Systems
In network systems, there exists a spectrum of hierarchical control - from centralized to
distributed. The current standard for most networks including banking systems,
governments, and businesses is centralized. These network structures are simple, high
capacity, and centrally controlled. They inherently give full control to a minority of
administrators, in service of the majority of users of a system. This is beneficial in that it
minimizes data sharing costs and control conflicts. Centralized systems are also intuitive by
nature, due to strict hierarchical social systems having been the most efficient option
available for development of societies since the dawn of civilization. Centralized power
institutions have served empires, governments, and economies relatively well as information
need only pass through the few. As technology progresses however, there is not only the
ability to form efficient distributed systems over a global network, there is a growing
necessity[5]. As evidenced in the recent breach of major banking institutions resulting in
millions of identities and accounts stolen, centralized systems are vulnerable to attack. This
vulnerability is structural in that one compromised target can grant access to majority
control and ownership of the target data. This can make the upfront cost and time required
to mount a successful security attack justifiable.
Conversely, distributed systems often require numerous simultaneous attacks, each with a
diminished return proportional to distribution. As a result, attacks on distributed systems can
be very costly, challenging, and ultimately unprofitable. This is in stark contrast to
centralized systems, which are in a perpetual cat-and-mouse game. Much of the overhead
cost of a centralized system is devoted to maintaining a competitive security edge, rather
than developing improvements to the system itself.
Distributed systems by comparison become more secure as a network grows, allowing
resources to be directed to the consumer or to development and innovation. The ultimate
challenge of a distributed system is to reap the benefits of this robust architecture, without
sacrificing efficiency. For the data and control to truly be distributed, information must pass
through each node of the system equally, and the network must reach a consensus on the
accuracy of this data.

2

Proof-of-Work Cost as an Incentive to Centralize
Bitcoin is the first publicly successful distributed consensus system where consensus certifies
a store of value[1]. Value is a an ideal proof-of-principle vehicle, proving that distributed
systems can be used to form public consensus, secured via proofs. Due to the structural
security strength of distributed systems relative to fully centralized systems, Bitcoin’s
consensus ledger of transactions is both valuable and resistant to attack.
In Bitcoin, Proof-of-Work secures the ledger with a floating difficulty which determines the
cost of each vote in the consensus as proportional to computational power. This system has
proven its security [12], but it does come with significant overhead. The high costs of forming
consensus; termed mining, has incentivized a centralization of resources that minimizes
costs and risks for miners. Miners do not necessarily have stake in the currency itself after
sale to recoup costs. Also, unlike the precious metal miner, they have keys to the security and
consensus of the system. Minimizing these risks and costs has resulted in three to five large
centralized pools of computational power contributing the vast majority of consensus. This
results in a total operating cost in the millions of dollars per day, for what is often a three in
five consensus. Though this distributed consensus achievement is remarkable in it’s own
right, and Proof-of-Work has many advantages unique to the system. Still, this centralization
phenomena is a potentially slippery slope that has two significant security vulnerabilities.
The first of these vulnerabilities is, as distribution of the system is reduced in order to offset
cost and risk for those who form the consensus, the number of compromised targets needed
to manipulate consensus becomes increasingly tractable and less costly. The second of these
vulnerabilities is, as the number of entities required for consensus decreases, risk of collusion
increases exponentially. Though there may be other ways to address centralization of the
consensus, efficiency may in fact be the most direct [9] and this is why we have developed
VeriCoin and this new proof system.
We propose a distributed protocol system based on Peercoin’s Proof-of-Stake [2], that
addresses the two major security deficiencies of Proof-of-Work which stem from the
exceptional cost to run the system. This is achieved while also directly addressing the most
significant weakness in the current PoS protocols via a nonlinear time-accepted consensus
proof and an inflation-targeted variable interest reward system.

3

Proof-of-Stake: A Solution With Drawbacks
Proof-of-Stake
To the best of our knowledge, the idea behind Proof-of-Stake originated in comments about
Bitcoin by Nick Szabo in May 2011, discussing viable alternative proof systems [10]. Months
later the term Proof-of-Stake and other aspects related to this potential proof system were
described on the Bitcointalk forum by user QuantumMechanic [11]. Then, later that year in
November 2011, Sunny King made the first commits on github and the development and
implementation of this new proof system had begun.
One of the primary benefits of the Proof-of-Stake system is its efficiency. Proof-of-Work is
inherently inefficient, as it is a brute-force proof in which only greater performance increases
the probability of finding the correct hash and creating a block. This has resulted in a
computational power horse race where cost and risks drive the system toward efficiency, and
in some cases, further away from distribution of the consensus. We propose that a lower cost
to perform the proof, more effectively enables a long term distribution of the consensus,
while the consensus is more favorably formed by those with vested interest in the security of
the system. However, Proof-of-Stake in it’s current form does have significant drawbacks that
mitigate the effectiveness of this distributed consensus system.

The Rich Can Rule or the Poor Can Attac​k
In Proof-of-Work the cost and difficulty of forming the consensus secures the history of the
ledger as an attacker would have to out-compete more than half of the network power at any
given time. This is a costly endeavor and will likely become more costly over time as the
system grows. This is one of the greatest strengths of the Proof-of-Work system, and is in
large part why it stands the test of time. In current Proof-of-Stake systems the consensus is
weighted by coins, not computational resources. In this way, an inexpensive botnet cannot
dominate the consensus by mere size. Each node must have a fraction of the supply that
makes the probability to solve the proof possible. This is the cost that protects the consensus
from trivial attacks and manipulation.
Another benefit of this weighting of the consensus is those with vested interest in the viability
and security of the system are more directly forming the consensus. This coin weighting
scheme does, however, enable collusion, where a minority of holders are approving the
majority of blocks, and the majority of blocks are formed by this same minority.
In this scenario, distribution of the consensus is lost and those with few coins are merely
owning a share of a semi-centralized, collusion-risk pool. Neither the rich ruling nor the poor

4

attacking is an acceptable outcome for a distributed consensus proof. Peercoin, the first
Proof-of-Stake coin, offset both of these risks by implementing a hybrid Proof-of-Work and
Proof-of-Stake system where the stake is defined as coin-age [2].

Coin-Age Versus Coin as Stake Quantity
Coin-age in Peercoin is defined as the product of the total coins from a transaction and the
time difference between the current block and the block of its previous transaction. It
generates a proof for Peercoin in the following form:
proof 1.

proof hash < coins * age * target

In this proof coin lots most likely to find a proof are both high in coin and age. This results in a
more diversified consensus, as smaller lots of coin can still take part, but require more vested
time. This quantity ensures that nearly all coins available to stake, will eventually. Also, those
that do stake are deeper in the main-chain, mitigating novel attack vectors. If uncapped
however, age can be exploited to enable an attack vector where a moderate coin cost can
gain the majority of the consensus. Peercoin chose to cap age at three months to prevent this
type of attack from becoming too inexpensive over long periods of time.
Two critical developments in Proof-of-Stake currencies are Nxt and Blackcoin. The Nxt
currency [4] was the first exclusively Proof-of-Stake currency, which is important in that it
completely eliminated the overhead cost which is common in Proof-of-Work systems. It also
is one of the few currencies where the codebase is not forked from Bitcoin. This sets the stage
for iterations that further depart from Bitcoin’s original architecture. The Nxt developers did
not include age as a factor in reaching consensus in order to mitigate the risks associated
with excessive age. Blackcoin is a currency based on the Peercoin protocol that is also
exclusively Proof-of-Stake, and in many ways ushered a new era of Proof-of-Stake currencies.
This is due to the fact that most Proof-Of-Stake currencies are forked from the Blackcoin
source. Blackcoin protocol development outpaces most, and remains a leader with Nxt in
Proof-of-Stake development and implementation. In the development of their own custom
proof system, they also removed age similarly to Nxt, where the proof is in the form [2]:
proof 2.

proof hash < coins * target

VeriCoin forked from the Blackcoin source code prior to their implementation of a custom
protocol, and launched with a NovaCoin modified version of the Peercoin protocol. To further
iterate, we are proposing a new protocol that retains the distribution of consensus that
coin-age enables while also preventing inexpensive attacks. After the hack of Mintpal [13]

5

that resulted in approximately 30% of total VeriCoin supply being stolen from a centralized,
security deficient exchange, we experienced directly the inherent weaknesses of both
centralization, as well as the Proof-of-Stake system.
When a dishonest entity captured enough coin to control the vast majority of the consensus
and potentially exploit the system, we, along with the community, opted to hard-fork the
blockchain to prevent this attack. With or without age, this potential attack could not have
been stopped. After much debate and reconciliation with the community and market at
large, we knew we needed to develop a system that is far superior, and mitigates this risk as
completely as possible.

Introducing the Proof-of-Stake-Time Protocol
Stake-Time as an Alternative to Coin-Age
We propose a solution to a number of the major deficiencies in current Proof-of-Stake
models. This is achieved by introducing a nonlinear proof function that defines a fraction of
time active and idle, at a given block. Idle-time is defined as the fraction of age that no longer
supports the distribution of consensus and instead begins to degrade it. This quantified
idle-time is unique to each stake, as It decreases the probability to meet the proof and
impacts the fraction of earnable matured interest via consensus. Where the fraction of
accepted age (f) is equal to the squared cosine of the product of π and that transactions'
consensus power (p), defined as the fraction coin-age (g) of the average network wide
stake-time weight (n) over 60 blocks (1 hour) [figure 1]. If the consensus-power (p) is greater
than 0.45 all age is lost and the Time-active fraction is equal to the minimum stake time (m)
of 8 hours.
eq 1. Consensus-power (p)

p= g/n
eq 2. Time-active fraction (f)

f = cos2 (πp) {if (p > 0.45), f = m}

6

figure 1.

As the contribution of coinage approaches a majority of the network weight, a greater
fraction of age is deemed as idle-time and is not accepted by the network. The resulting effect
of this function is that it requires a network activity level that is proportional to the number of
coins held, and relative to the network strength. In this method, actively staking is
incentivized to maximize both the likelihood to sign a block, and to earn all of the matured
interest in reward. The Stake-Time function is used both in the proof and in the
quantification of reward.

7

We define Stake-Time as “The coin-age of a transaction or set of transactions
in which the Stake-Time is the product of the total coins (C) and the fraction (f)
of acceptable age(a)” in the form:
eq. 3. Stake-Time (s)

s = C * (af )
Like coin-age, the network accepted Stake-Time is a trust score for coins and depth on the
main chain, but also for activity in the network. Unlike Proof-of-Work or Proof-of-Stake, the
likelihood to participate in consensus can decrease over time. The combination of these two
factors must be in delicate balance with the network, in order to maximize the probability to
stake coins. This proof is in the form:
proof 3.

proof hash < coins * staketime * target

Distribution of a Consensus Majority
Maintaining a minimal idle-time inherently increases the probability to stake while reducing
the probability of a successful attack. This results in a moving window that is exponentially
more difficult to target for attack, enhancing security of the system from the core structure of
a nonlinear consensus. The trust score diminishes with increased idle-time towards a
minimum trust score which is equal to the number of coins. While the network approaches
equilibrium with the PoST protocol, age will accumulate and plateau across the network.
After achieving equilibrium of accumulated age, a network race results to stake as many coin
lots as possible before a lot leaves the Stake-Time window [figure 2].
In addition, all participants in the consensus must have reached at least a marginal depth in
the main chain and be actively processing transactions to achieve maximal consensus
weight. This staking behavior directly protects the blockchain. Ultimately, a maximum
network strength is directed away from consensus majority. This results in, on average, a
more evenly distributed and more secure staking system, which is exponentially more
difficult to attack.

8

figure 2.

Actively Staking is Most Profitable
In order to maximize the probability of earning all matured interest and signing a block
during a period of time, a node must stake actively to ensure passage through the Stake-Time
window for all coins held. When network strength is lower, the fraction of age deemed
idle-time increases. This results in inactive stakers being penalized, with some loss of
matured interest, and decreased probability to stake. By decreasing the likelihood to stake,
the inactive staker is susceptible to accumulating age at a faster rate than those actively
staking. To regain optimal probability of earning all matured interest, this staker must
resume active staking to make up lost time. Conversely, individuals who are staking with
little to no idle-time earn their full matured interest reward even in a weaker network state,
when acceptable age is low and interest rate is high due to the PoST targeted inflation rate
[figure 3]. As a workaround, accumulated idle-time could be reset by sending coins to
another wallet, but this comes at a cost: fees are paid to those who are actively staking, and
all matured interest due is lost. In summation, the behavior that is by far the most profitable
is to stake as actively as possible. This further incentivizes a stable, well-supported network.

9

The Active Rich and the Vested Poor
This protocol addresses other major drawbacks of the PoS system, one being the "Rich Rule"
problem. In PoST, the richest holders must actively stake more often, since the protocol
requires an activity per coin to receive proportional reward. This has two impacts once the
age of the network has achieved equilibrium. The first of these impacts, is that those with
fewer coins have the ability to contribute more to consensus over time, as depth in the main
chain increases, further distributing the consensus. The second impact, is that larger holders
will have a more significant vote in the consensus proportional to their coin amount, but
must also earn their ability to maintain an optimal trust score. This means that the fewer
coins held, the greater the age required to successfully stake, and the less idle-time
registered. As a result, each coin lot will be met with a relative definition of idle-time. The
consensus field is significantly more distributed across a wider range of coin totals, while the
blockchain is still protected by the cost of a coin. As a low coin wallet earns a maximal trust
score, the quantification of idle-time is exponentially steeper. Due to the Stake-Time product,
any loss of age is more significant as fewer coins are held, preventing inexpensive votes.

Time at Stake
Another significant advantage to this system is its ability to address the nothing-at-stake
incentive challenge of PoS ​[8]. In Proof-of-Stake, chain-splitting can be common due to a lack
of work required to become the longest chain. In PoST, however, as a wallet approaches a
majority of network weight, its individual weight diminishes proportionally in age. Stake
weight in the event of a fork is contributed to the weight of that particular fork, so If a wallet
has the majority of coin necessary to fork the main chain, it is impossible for it to not have a
majority of the weight for that fork. In PoST, the result is a stake weight that will rapidly
diminish, slowing a fork considerably relative to that of the main chain. Ultimately, this
mechanism can prevent a competing chain with a less distributed consensus from surpassing
the more distributed main chain and thus remove any realistic incentive for attempting to
stake on multiple chains. This in all practicality eliminates the risk of the ‘nothing-at-stake’
fork attack vector.

10

Inversely Paired Interest Model
In PoST, it is nearly impossible to effectively manipulate the interest rate, despite the fact
that this variable interest rate falls within a wide range. As network weight increases, the
degree of idle-time quantified on average is less, resulting in more matured interest earned
over longer periods of time. Due to a new inflation-targeted variable interest rate, however,
the interest in these periods will be significantly lower. Conversely, if network strength is low
the interest rate will rise and quantified idle-time will be greater. If any node attempts to
subvert this system by staking during high interest rates, or by waiting for network idle-time
to diminish, they will either experience a reduced interest rate, or a loss of matured interest
entirely. This results in a network where only those who have earned minimal idle-time by
actively staking will reap full benefit of their staking across the spectrum of interest and
accepted maturity.

Inflation Targeted Interest for Incentive-Driven Security
figure 3.

11

Network Stake-Dependent Interest Rate
VeriCoin initially launched with Network-Stake-Dependent-Interest (NSDI) in order to provide
a variable network interest rate, ranging between approximately 1.8% and 2.6% contingent
on the network stake weight according to the formula:
eq. 4. Interest reward (r)

r = g i * 33/(365 * 33 + 8)
where-in interest reward (r) is the product of coin-age (g), interest rate (i), and an
approximation of the number of days in a year. Interest rate is then calculated in the form:
eq. 5. Interest rate (i)

i = (17 * (log(n/20))/100
where-in​ interest rate (i) is logarithmically proportional to network stake weight (n).
If each VeriCoin holder were to actively stake, an inflation rate of approximately 2.6% would
be realized. Since not all holders actively stake their coin, VeriCoin achieved a true inflation
rate of 1.2% in its first year.
The expected incentive of network-stake-dependent-interest has been insufficient to both
enable an exceptionally stable network while achieving the goal inflation rate of 2%. The
original
model
can
however
still
be
realized
by
targeting
for
a
network-stake-dependent-inflation rate, inherently in the protocol.

Inflation-Targeted Interest Rate
Addressing the need for both enhanced incentive, as well as consistent inflation. Vericoin
Development has implemented an inflation-targeted variable interest rate. By specifically
targeting a network-stake-dependent-inflation rate rather than interest rate, the network
maintains an inflation rate that falls within the original goal range of 1.8-2.6%. This inflation
rate rises as market supply diminishes. In addition, by allowing those who actively stake to
receive the entire inflation amount via interest, the protocol greatly increases incentive for
staking without excess inflation.

12

The New Interest Determination Function is as Follows:

eq. 6. Interest reward (r)

r = si * 33/(365 * 33 + 8)
where-in interest reward (r) is the product of Stake-Time (s), interest rate (i), and an
approximation of the number of days in a year. The interest rate is then calculated in the
form:
eq. 7. Interest rate (i)

i = t * 26, 751, 452 / n
where-in interest rate (i) is the product of inflation rate (t) and the total Proof-of-Work initial
VeriCoin supply, divided by average network weight (n). Inflation rate (t) takes the same form
as the interest rate in the previous reward system as follows:
eq. 8. Inflation rate (t)

t = (17 * (log(n/20))/100
This allows for rapidly increasing stake interest rates while network strength is low, creating a
powerful incentive to stabilize the network when staking is needed most. In addition, an
individual who actively stakes receives significantly larger interest payments over the
lifespan of a node compared to the current model. Lastly, since the interest rate is targeted to
an inflation rate which is calculated against 26,751,452 (the total number of VRC produced
during the initial Proof-of-Work phase), PoST inflation rate is non-compounded and
decreasing relative to total supply over time. This inflation-targeted interest mechanism
ensures an inflation rate which gradually diminishes over time, even further increasing
incentive to stake, while encouraging distribution of consensus.

13

Conclusion
Finally, we conclude that the nonlinear time-accepted proof system further distributes
consensus by accepting time that enhances distribution and rejecting time that diminishes it.
The Stake-Time window is an exponentially more difficult attack target, where significant
threats are detected and addressed proactively by the network, and finding suitable proofs
becomes progressively more difficult. Simultaneously, distributed threats are also
discouraged by PoST, and heavily penalized in cost. The system also significantly incentivizes
participation in staking with greater overall rewards to those actively participating in the
consensus, particularly at times when needed most. The inversely proportional relationship
between accepted-time and interest rate prevents dishonest nodes from bypassing the
dynamics of this system, and taking what isn’t due in proof.
With this work we aim to bring Proof-of-Stake to a new level of security, with strong incentive
and fair distribution. This delivers more favorable rewards for more favorable actions,
securing the network in a very direct and tangible way. It is our goal to create an environment
where consensus collusion and manipulation are as far from practical as possible, where a
near costless distributed network can thrive for years to come via voluntary participation in a
provable consensus.

14

Acknowledgements
A sincere thank you to the Altcoin Community in general and to all of those who have
supported VeriCoin and continue to do so unconditionally.
Special thanks to Jay Jay Abels, Bruno Proença, Scott Allyn, Ernest Chubb III, ​Jan Wieczorek
and many others for their relentless efforts to help deliver a unique brand, an active
Community and a cohesive message that truly captures the essence and pursuit of VeriCoin.

Resources
VeriCoin Website​ // www.vericoin.info
VeriCoin Forums​ // www.vericoinforums.com
VeriCoin YouTube​ // www.youtube.com/user/vericoinchannel
VeriCoin Facebook​ // www.facebook.com/vericoin
VeriCoin Twitter​ // www.twitter.com/vericoin
VeriCoin Google+​ // www.plus.google.com/+vericoinchannel

References
[1] Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. bitcoin.org, 2008.
[2] Sunny King and Scott Nadal. Ppcoin: Peer-to-peer crypto-currency with proof-of-stake.
peercoin.net, 2013.
[3] Pavel Vasin. BlackCoin’s Proof-of-Stake Protocol v2. blackcoin.co, 2014.
[4] Alias et. al. Whitepaper: Nxt. nxt.org, 2014.
[5] Nick Szabo. The dawn of trustworthy computing. unenumerated.blogspot.com, 2014.
[8] Vitalik Buterin. Proof of Stake: How I learned to love weak subjectivity. blog.ethereum.org, 2014.
[9] Laurie B. : Decentralised currencies are probably impossible (but let’s at least make them efficient).
http://www.links.org/files/decentralised-currencies.pdf​, 2011.
[10] Nick Szabo. Bitcoin, what took you so long? unenumerated.blogspot.com, 2011.
[11] QuantumMechanic. Proof of stake instead of proof of work. bitcointalk.org, 2011.
[12] Dan Kaminsky. I tried to hack Bitcoin and I failed. Business Insider, 2013.
[13] Stan Higgins. 8 Million Vericoin Hack Prompts Hard Fork to Recover Funds. Coindesk, 2014.

15

