Vote Coin
Anonymous Crypto Democracy

VoteCoin is an anonymous crypto
currency best suitable for elections
and other voting purposes, based
on Zerocoin protocol.
Whitepaper © 2017 VoteCoin team

-1-

Summary
Preface ….…………………………………………………………………….….………………… 3
Vote Coin as an anonymous digital currency ………………….…………………. 4
Vote Coin as a poll voting with crowd funding ……………………..……….…. 5
Vote Coin as a way for better democracy ……….………….……………….…… 6
Vote Coin future value estimation …………………………….……………..………. 7
Vote Coin wallet software ……………………………………………………….………… 8
Vote Coin initial coin offering ……………………………………………..………….… 9

Last update: 6th of September 2017

-2-

Vote Coin
Preface
During the past few decades, technologies have more than anything
else revolutionized every aspect of people’s lives. They are widely
used, rapidly expanding and have changed the characteristics of day
to day activities by simplifying them. People communicate easily,
transfer money in seconds, pay bills and buy staff with minimal effort.
Technologies took charge in every field and on every level of our lives.
Despite the advanced technology people have in present, even more
development is intractable. Every product, service or idea needs to be
continuously improved in order to stay on track. Public polls and even
electoral process are not any exception. But what kind of technology
could assure transparency and fairness in polls and elections, without
a central point of trust?
With VoteCoin, we aim to solve the problem, by providing new and
innovative digital currency with just the right features, which can
greatly improve the whole electoral system and make it more
transparent. It can also simplify public polls, surveys and crowd
funding campaigns and create their process more flexible and easily
trackable. This new digital currency can strengthen democracy and
help people to reach their goals. The detailed information about the
ways it can achieve mentioned results is provided in the upcoming
sections.

-3-

Vote Coin
as an anonymous digital currency
VoteCoin is an implementation of the "Zerocash" protocol. Technical
details regarding the Zerocash protocol are covered in a separate
document:
http://zerocash-project.org/media/pdf/zerocash-extended-20140518.pdf

VoteCoin offers a high standard of privacy and preserves the
confidentiality of transactions through sophisticated zero-knowledge
proving scheme. VoteCoin source code is based on the peer-reviewed
Zcash sources. Furthermore, VoteCoin provides three main
advantages:
1. No Founders Reward: Zcash implements Founders Reward,
where 20% of coins are transferred to the Zcash developers and
investors during the first years. We have removed this “feature”,
so VoteCoin has no founders reward.
2. No Slow start period: Zcash implements Slow start period, where
mining produces fractional reward to miners on start, and the
reward slowly increases afterwards. We have removed this from
VoteCoin, so miners get their full reward from the very
beginning.
3. Multi-platform wallet: Zcash is officially supported only as a Linux
text-mode client. We intend to provide an easy to use Graphical
Wallet Application for all major operating systems, including
Linux, Windows, and MAC OS.

-4-

Vote Coin
as a poll voting with crowd funding
Online polls face a great challenge. Any programmer with moderate
expertise can find ways how to manipulate them. Even with combined
technical obstacles such as captcha verifications, IP address checking
and cookies, it is practically impossible to avoid fake votes.
VoteCoin attempts to solve this problem. When using VoteCoin for a
poll, all participating users are required to transfer some coin value in
order to express their opinion about inquiry, which makes any attempt
to influence the results of the poll costly. That effectively discourages
cheating.
As a side effect, the poll operator earns profit with every vote. Thus,
public polls conducted through VoteCoin can be considered as a type
of crowd funding campaign.
Voting in online polls can be either transparent, by sending VoteCoin
to a T address, or private and completely anonymous, when sending
VoteCoin to a Z addresses.
Even VoteCoin itself will use this type of crowd funded polls to identify
the future direction of development. Unlike bitcoin, where decisions
are made by miners, VoteCoin’s future is fully in the hands of VoteCoin
token holders.

-5-

Vote Coin
as a way for better democracy
VoteCoin can improve the current electoral system in a number of
ways.
Traditional voting methods give a citizen just one option to vote for
one candidate or another. With VoteCoin, it is possible to divide one’s
vote between multiple candidates.
If a citizen believes that another person can make more informed
decision when voting, s/he has a possibility to transfer the vote to that
person, which effectively transfers the voting rights.
Voting can be public, where everybody can have access to personal
information about voter, the value of transaction and the candidates
s/he has voted for; or private, by using shielded transactions, so that
nobody can see how anyone else voted or how much value he or she
spent.
The final result of the elections held via VoteCoin is determined by
total value received by each candidate. Since anonymous transactions
are hidden from blockchain, one more step is necessary – at the end,
all the candidates must transfer all received coins to a transparent
address, to declassify received totals. It is up to each candidate to
transfer as much value to win the elections.
Revenue from elections does not stay in the hands of candidates,
instead it is collected on transparent addresses from where it can be
spent by the organizing institution. By using VoteCoin for the elections,
it becomes more transparent, creates value and wide variety of
choices and is won by the candidate who managed to collect more
money than others for public good.

-6-

Vote Coin
future value estimation
There are several existing ZeroCoin protocol implementations, as
described in Table 1. All of the listed currencies started their ways from
zero. The growth of their exchange rates is outstanding. We assume
that VoteCoin will achieve at least similar or even better results and
the past statistics support our assumption.

Currency
Komodo (KMD)
Hush (HUSH)
ZClassic (ZCL)
Zencash (ZEN)
ZCash (ZEC)

Value in BTC
0.00032300
0.00038103
0.00049039
0.00177250
0.06238361

Table 1. Exchange rates as of 21st of August 2017

-7-

Value in USD
$1.28
$1.51
$1.95
$7.06
$248.78

Vote Coin
wallet software
There were lots of different crypto coins implemented lately, but none
of them offer a wallet software which would meet our criteria for
usability and stability. We aim to provide well-designed VoteCoin
client, which is easy to use for all users and which runs on most
common platforms, including Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows and Linux.
The following screenshot is our first draft.

VoteCoin supports two formats of addresses. Transparent addresses,
prefixed with “t”, are used to send value publicly, where all information
about the transaction are publicly visible on the blockchain. Shielded
addresses, prefixed with “z”, hide all the personal information.
-8-

Vote Coin
initial coin offering (ICO)
Ten million (10 000 000) VoteCoin tokens (coins) is available for initial
coin distribution. ICO ends at 21st of October 2017 at 10:00 CET.
Remaining coins unsold at the end date of the ICO will be split between
all contributors in proportion to their purchased value.
In order to obtain VoteCoin tokens:
-

Visit www.votecoin.site and click the “Participate” button.
Enter your email address
Enter your desired value of bitcoins you prefer to spend
A new unique bitcoin address will be generated for your
purchase. Now it is needed to send bitcoins of the desired value
to this address.
- If you prefer to use different digital currency, such as ETH, LTC,
or some other, feel free to use shapeshift.io, which will allow you
to send any currency of your choice to our bitcoin address
(automatic conversion will occur).
- After your payment is confirmed, you will receive appropriate
amount of VoteCoin tokens, specifically: 50 000 VOT for 1 BTC.
So, for example, if you spent 0.03 BTC, you will receive 1500 VOT.
Considering current exchange rates, as of 21st of August 2017,
each 1 VOT coin is sold through the ICO for $0.08 USD. Thank you
very much for considering your participation!
Once your payment is confirmed and verified, we will send you an
email with instructions how to claim your VOT coins. There are
basically two options, you can either install VoteCoin Linux client and
receive your VOT coins right away, or you can decide to wait until
VoteCoin is listed at some exchange and then you may receive your
coins to your exchange's wallet.
-9-

