Waltonchain White Paper

(V 1.0.4)

Value Internet of Things (VIoT) constructs a perfect commercial ecosystem via the integration of the real
world and the blockchain
Ushering human beings into the reliable digital life
Waltonchain unfolds the new era of Value Internet of Things (VIoT)

By the Waltonchain Team
2018.02.08

Table of Contents
Part 1 Introduction — The concept of the Value Internet of Things................................................................. 1
1.1

The Inevitable Trend of Internet Technology Innovation: The Value Internet of Things .................. 1

1.2

The Blockchain Technology Development Trend: Rapid Expansion of Application Areas ................. 3

1.3

The Technical Preparation to Create the Era of Value Internet of Things (VIoT) Has Been
Completed .......................................................................................................................................... 5

Part 2 Journey — The Realization of Value Internet of Things .......................................................................... 8
2.1

General Description............................................................................................................................ 8

2.2

The hardware of the Value Internet of Things ................................................................................... 8

2.2.1

What is RFID? .............................................................................................................................. 8

2.2.2

RFID tags ................................................................................................................................... 10

2.2.3

Introduction of UHF RFID ICs .................................................................................................... 11

2.2.4

Analysis on the Advantages and Disadvantages of International RFID ICs............................... 12

2.2.5

The Overall Design of the RFID ICs of the Value Internet of Things ......................................... 13

2.3

The Software of the Value Internet of Things .................................................................................. 17

2.3.1

The Interpretation of WALTON ................................................................................................ 17

2.3.2

The Overall Structure of Waltonchain ...................................................................................... 18

2.3.3

Waltonchain Protocol and Waltoncoin .................................................................................... 20

2.3.4

Waltonchain ecosystem ........................................................................................................... 31

2.4

Application Scenarios: Waltonchain Project’s System Solutions for the Apparel Industry ............. 35

2.4.1

Analysis on the Dilemma of the Traditional Apparel Manufacturing ....................................... 36

2.4.2

Smart Manufacturing Solution for the Apparel Industry.......................................................... 37

2.4.3

Smart Logistics & Warehousing Solution for the Apparel Industry .......................................... 39

2.4.4

Smart Store Solution for the Apparel Industry ......................................................................... 41

Part 3 Future — Value Internet of Things Will Change the World .................................................................. 45
3.1

The Stage Planning of the Waltonchain Project ............................................................................... 45

3.2

The Investment Value of the Waltonchain Project .......................................................................... 48

Part 4 Project Foundation................................................................................................................................ 51
Part 5 Team Introduction ................................................................................................................................ 54

第五部分 团队简介 ....................................................................................................................................... 54
5.1 Initiators ................................................................................................................................................ 54
5.2 Senior Advisors ...................................................................................................................................... 55
5.3 Chief Experts .......................................................................................................................................... 56
5.4 Team Members...................................................................................................................................... 57
5.5

Angel Investors ................................................................................................................................. 63

5.6

Consultant Team .............................................................................................................................. 64

Part 6 References ............................................................................................................................................ 67

Part 1 Introduction — The concept of the
Value Internet of Things
1.1

The Inevitable Trend of Internet Technology Innovation:
The Value Internet of Things
We are in an era where new technologies lead to social changes. In the age of

information and the Internet, human collaboration and communication break
through time and space constraints, and the world becomes an overall interactive
platform.
In recent years, the Internet has entered a new business format of
“Internet +”. In this stage, a new form of economic and social development of
“Internet + all traditional industries” driven by knowledge and social innovation
2.0 provides a broad network platform for the reform, innovation and
development of various industries.
At present, the information age is entering an unprecedented important stage
of development where the objects can be connected to each other through the
Internet; this stage is called the third wave of the development of the world
information industry following the computer and the Internet: the age of the
Internet of Things (IoT). Internet of Things technology contains two meanings: first,
the core and foundation of the Internet of Things is still the Internet, the Internet
of Things is an extension of the Internet; second, the client side of the Internet of
Things extends to the information exchange and communication between any
objects, which is so called object-to-object interrelation.
However, from the Internet, to the "Internet +" and then to the Internet of
things, all stages have failed to solve the problem of localization of information
1

dissemination (e.g. centralization). It is difficult for the Internet of things under the
current central structure to accomplish the real autonomous cooperation and
effective transactions, because the relevant parties of such cooperation and
transactions often belong to different stakeholders with complex and uncertain
trust relationship. Therefore, the collaboration and transactions of the current
Internet of Things devices can only be carried out under the same trust domain,
the devices to collaborate and trade must be provided or verified by the same
Internet of Things service provider, which significantly reduces the true commercial
value of the Internet of Things applications.
In this context, we put forward the concept of the “Value Internet of Things
(VIoT)”, focusing on introducing the blockchain technology into the Internet of
things, to solve the problem of centralization facing the development process of
the Internet of Things. The blockchain is a decentralized transaction record &
storage technology based on cryptographic principles; with a distributed
point-to-point network, it can achieve the permanent storage of orderly
transaction record which is undeletable, tamper-resistant, open and traceable, so
it is recognized as the best choice to meet the above challenges. In the ecology of
the blockchain, people can trade safely without trust established in advance,
because every transaction is well recorded in the “public ledger” of the blockchain,
which is a perfect solution to the trust and equity issues of the Internet virtual
world. The inevitable trends of the Value Internet of Things are shown in Figure
1.1.

2

Figure 1.1: The inevitable trend of the Value Internet of Things

1.2

The Blockchain Technology Development Trend: Rapid
Expansion of Application Areas
Bitcoin appeared in 2009 and began to circulate. The total market

capitalization of Bitcoin has exceeded $ 30 billion, making Bitcoin a successful
application of the blockchain technology in the field of digital money. Ethereum
introduced smart contracts to program the complex contract rules into the
blockchain by way of code. Smart contracts can be automatically executed when
the agreed conditions are reached, as a result, the field of application of the
blockchain has been broadened; the representative Namecoin and Datacoin
extended the object of the blockchain from the electronic money trading record in
the era of Bitcoin to the domain name, user data and other fields.

3

As an organic component of the blockchain distributed implementation, the
consensus mechanism has also undergone full development; as a result, several
major consensus mechanisms have appeared:
POW: Proof of Work, e.g. Work to Prove Consensus Mechanism, also known
as the mining mechanism. Bitcoin is first one to use the POW mechanism to
dominate the block generation. The node continues trying to calculate the block
hash value corresponding to each block ledger’s content to satisfy a specific
condition, that is, N zeros are used as the preamble. This will increase the difficulty
of Block generation, significantly reducing the risk of correct subchains being
replaced by quickly generated longer malicious subchains, but will also lead to the
waste of many computing resources of the mining machines at the same time.
POS: Proof of Stake, e.g. Stake to Prove Consensus Mechanism. It is an
upgrade of the POW consensus mechanism to control the length of mining time
based on the number of the tokens and the holding time of the node; it can
effectively reduce the mining time, but still cannot avoid the problem of wasting
the computing resources of the mining machines.
DPOS: Delegated Proof of Stake, e.g. Delegated Stake to Prove Consensus
Mechanism. Its principle is that tokens select a certain number of nodes by voting
to complete the verification and accounting work for them. This consensus
mechanism can greatly reduce the number of nodes involved in accounting and
verification to achieve rapid consensus verification, but it also relies on the
existence of the tokens, so that some applications that do not require tokens will
be limited.
PBFT: Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance. It is a consistency algorithm by
message transmission that achieves consistency through three phases to
determine the final block generation. If there are 3f + 1 nodes, this algorithm can
tolerate the existence of f error nodes, so that the consistency results will not be
4

affected. This mechanism can be divorced from the existence of coins, the
consensus node can be determined by participants and regulators, and 2—5
seconds of shared delay are basically able to meet the commercial requirements.
Various consensus mechanisms have their own considerations and
significance in terms of their respective business scenarios and technical means.
When compared to each other, they have different improvements and
enhancements in different aspects, as well as different disadvantages, so there
seems to be no optimal consensus mechanism. Achieving the pluggable
applications of various consensus mechanisms, choosing the right consensus
mechanism according to the specific application scenario and optimizing the
application of blockchain shall be the best way for further application in more
fields.
Various trends indicate that blockchain technology is expanding its application
to more and more areas, such as digital money and smart contracts, while the
earlier relevant technologies failed to break the connection barrier between the
virtual network and the real world. Applying the blockchain to the Internet of
Things and smart systems and connecting the item tags and identity tags in the real
world to the virtual network via RFID technology will successfully build this
connection, ultimately achieve the interconnection of all things and create the era
of Value Internet of Things (VIoT).

1.3

The Technical Preparation to Create the Era of Value
Internet of Things (VIoT) Has Been Completed
Traditional Internet of Things (IoT) is a network which enables all the common

objects that can perform independent functions to be interconnected. It connects
the sensors, controllers and objective entities through network technology to
realize intelligent management and control. For example, through radio frequency
5

identification (RFID), infrared sensors, global positioning systems, laser scanners
and other information sensing equipment, it connects any item to the Internet to
carry out information exchange and communication according to the agreement,
to achieve intelligent identification, positioning, tracking, monitoring and
management. As an extension of the Internet, the Internet of Things further
promotes the connections between machine and machine, human and machine
and achieves the full life cycle circulation management of data in the information
world.
With the continuous advances of technology, the development and
application of the Internet of Things technology have achieved remarkable results
in recent years. There are already billions of sensors and smart controllers put into
use so far, and the number of the sensors and smart controllers is expected to
grow in the next few years. However, the Internet of Things technology is also
facing many problems and challenges which may become great obstacles for the
future development and application of the Internet of Things. The era of the Value
Internet of Things led by RFID and blockchain technologies can provide solutions to
these problems.
The technical realization of the Value Internet of Things means connecting the
items tags, event tags, people and body tags and other entity tags in the real world
with the virtual world of the Internet through the underlying hardware platform
using the RFID tags as the core, combined with the blockchain technology
delivering value and constructing trust, to achieve the real interconnection of all
things.
The speed of transition from the Information Internet and traditional Internet
of Things to the Value Internet of Things based on RFID and blockchain technology
may be far beyond the current expectations. When the Value Internet of Things

6

achieves the real interconnection of all things, the RFID and blockchain technology
will play a greater role.

7

Part 2 Journey — The Realization of Value
Internet of Things
2.1

General Description
The whole system of the Value Internet of Things can be divided into two

parts: hardware and software. The hardware includes the RFID tag chips and the
RFID reader chips. The RFID tag acts as the interface for all assets to be connected
to the chain, and the reader chip is a bridge for all assets to be connected to the
chain and can be used as a node on the chain. The software includes the
Waltonchain software system, the Waltonchain protocol and Waltoncoin. With the
combination of software and hardware, the Value Internet of Things can really
achieve the connection of all things to the chain and the digitalization of all assets.

2.2

The hardware of the Value Internet of Things

2.2.1 What is RFID?
The Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology is a communication
technology that can identify specific targets and read and write relevant data
through the radio signals without building a mechanical or optical contact between
the recognition system and specific targets. RFID readers are divided into mobile
readers and fixed readers. At present, RFID technology is widely used, for example,
in library access control systems, for food safety traceability, etc.
The radio frequency tags are the physical carrier of the electronic product
code (EPC) which are attached to traceable items, identifiable, readable and
writeable and can be circulated all over the world. As a key technology for
constructing the "Internet of Things", the RFID technology has received attention
8

in recent years. The RFID technology originated from the United Kingdom, it was
used in the Second World War to identify friend or foe aircraft. Its business
application began in the 1960s. The RFID technology is an automatic identification
technology. The US Department of Defense states that all military supplies must
use RFID tags since January 1, 2005, and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
recommends that the pharmaceutical companies use RFID to trace drugs easy to
be faked since 2006. By using the RFID technology, Walmart and Metro retailers
have further promoted the application of RFID in the world. In 2000, the price of
each RFID tag was $1. Many researchers believed that RFID tags were very
expensive, large-scale application could be realized only when the price went
down. In 2005, the price of each RFID tag was about 12 cents, and now the price of
each UHF RFID tag is about 10 cents. To achieve large-scale application of RFID, on
the one hand, it is necessary to reduce the price of RFID tags, on the other hand, it
depends on whether the application of RFID can bring value-added services.
Eurostat statistics show that in 2010, 3% of the EU companies used RFID
technology for identity documents and access control, supply chain and inventory
tracking, car charges, security, production control and asset management, etc.
Since 2010, due to the improvement of economic situation, the development of
the Internet of Things industry and other positive factors, global RFID market
continues to heat up, RFID technology has been applied to a growing number of
fields, and people have had higher expectations for the development of RFID
industry. The RFID technology is in a period of rapid maturity, many countries are
actively promoting RFID as an important industry.
Although the prices of passive UHF electronic tags fell rapidly in the past two
years, the prices of UHF RFID systems are still high relative to the overall cost of
RFID chips, including readers, electronic tags, middleware, system maintenance,
etc. And the cost of UHF RFID system is an important indicator for clients to

9

estimate the return of investment. The bottleneck caused by high cost has become
an important factor restricting the development of UHF system market.
In short, the passive UHF market is still in its early stage of development. Thus,
the core technology needs breakthroughs, business models need to be innovated
and improved, and the industry value chain needs to be further developed and
extended. Only when the core issues are effectively resolved, can we embrace the
real development of RFID passive UHF market.

2.2.2 RFID tags
The RFID tag contains the stored electronic information. The tag does not
need to be within the sight of the recognizer, and it can be embedded in the
tracked object. RFID tags include passive tags and active tags.
Passive tags: can get energy from the electromagnetic field emitted by the
reader, no battery required.
Active tags: the tag itself has power supply and can automatically send radio
waves.
Figure 2.1 shows the actual application scenario of RFID.

Figure 2.1: The actual application scenario of RFID

10

2.2.3 Introduction of UHF RFID ICs
After years of development, the RFID technology of 13.56 MHz or less has
been relatively mature. At present, the industry pays most attention to the UHF
RFID which operates in the frequency range 860 to 960 MHz. Its advantages are
fast reading and writing, multi-target recognition, non-line-of-sight recognition,
mobile positioning and long-term tracking management, long effective range
(usually 3 to 10 m) and fast communication speed. UHF RFID technology has
become a hot spot in the development of the industry, and passive UHF RFID tags
and systems grow rapidly.
The built-in RFID IC of UHF recognizer (reader and writer) is a core component
that provides readability to the recognizer. On the receiving end the Received
wireless useful signal is amplified by LNA, mixed by I/Q mixer, filterer, converted
by ADC, and finally inputted to the MCU; on the transmitting end the signal
outputted from the MCU is mixed by I/Q mixer, amplified by PA and transmitted to
the antenna, finally transmitted to the tag. Figure 2.2 shows the structure of the
RFID IC of UHF recognizer (reader and writer).

Figure 2.2: UHF recognizer (reader and writer) RFID IC structure diagram
11

UHF Tag IC: is a core component that provides memory and performance for
tags. It manages the received wireless signal as energy, transmits the stored
memory data to the antenna after the carrier modulation. Figure 2.3 shows the
structure of the UHF RFID tag IC.

Figure 2.3: UHF RFID tag IC structure diagram

2.2.4 Analysis on the Advantages and Disadvantages of International
RFID ICs
Reader ICs: due to the huge market attractiveness, many manufacturers have
been involved in the relevant technology research, development and production,
bringing on an upsurge of radio frequency identification technology. Based on the
increasing investment in research, the RFID technology has made great progress in
core hardware technology, public service platform and testing and standard.
International companies have achieved many technical improvements of RF
front-end, analog front end, digital baseband and storage unit of the multi-band
radio frequency identification; the mainstream manufacturing process has reached
0.13 microns or less and achieved the mass production of low-power technological
chips, such as R2000 by Impinj: its reception sensitivity has reached –80 dBm (10
dBm self-interference) with a transmission power of 31.5 dBm. Although the
performance is excellent, the price is very high.
12

Tag ICs: as for the tag chip technology, the developed countries already have a
relatively complete product line. With the continuous development and
improvement of technology and market, the electronic tag technology continues to
improve, and the industrial application of technology has entered a stage of
vigorous development. The class 0 design by Alien has laid the foundation for the
implementation of the first generation RFID standards. Compared to the first
generation standards, the second generation EPF tag IC has many advantages: its
center frequency reaches 900 MHz band, greatly improving the recognition rate to
500 to 1500 tags/sec; its backscatter data rate can be increased from tens of bits
per second to 650 kbps; its scan range has increased to 30 feet. Now in the market
and the laboratory, the second generation UHF RFID tag ICs with more excellent
features have appeared, for example, Impinj’s Monza 4 RFID tag IC has reached a
more advanced level. Its outstanding performance mainly reflects in extensible
memory options, innovative secrecy function, good anti-jamming capability and
industry-leading sensitivity properties.
But the existing RFID chip industry cannot meet the development of Internet
of Things applications, especially applications for the Value Internet of Things:
there are few options available while the prices are high; the transmission power
and stability need to be improved; the reception sensitivity is low, the
anti-interference ability is poor and the transmission power is low. In addition, the
existing RFID ICs have many problems such as high power consumption, poor
matching with antenna and difficult system integration, etc.

2.2.5 The Overall Design of the RFID ICs of the Value Internet of
Things
The project includes RFID tag IC and reader IC suitable for blockchain
technology applications. The ICs are characterized by integrated elliptic curve and

13

decryption acceleration module based on the existing RFID technology and a
communication interface protocol suitable for blockchain technology applications.
The implementation of the project will promote the application of blockchain
technology in the Internet of Things and solve the following problems in the
current application of blockchain technology:
1. Each tag does not need to store node data, only need to be responsible for
signature verification;
2. Tags automatically generate random public keys and private keys to
ensure the security of Internet of Things applications, to ensure that the
tag is unique, authentic and tamper-resistant;
3. Tags can reduce the amount of information stored to solve the problem of
blockchain overload by large amounts of data in the Internet of Things
applications;
4. Tags can solve the problem of slow encryption and decryption in
asymmetric encryption technology;
5. Tags can help truly achieve the decentralization of property management
and asset management so as to make the data tamper-resistant.
RFID reader IC is one of the core components of the reader, containing the RF
section and digital signal processing section. On the receiving end the signal is
amplified by LNA, mixed by I/Q mixer, filterer, converted by ADC and finally
inputted to the digital processing section; on the transmitting end the digital signal
outputted from the digital processing section is converted by ADC, mixed by I/Q
mixer, amplified by PA and transmitted to the antenna, finally transmitted to the
tag.

14

The RFID tag IC contains the RF section, power management section, digital
signal processing section and storage section. The power management section
contains electromagnetic coupling, energy storage, LDO and other circuits. It
converts the received wireless signal into electrical energy to power the tag. In the
transmitting section, the stored memory data is transmitted to the antenna after
carrier modulation.
Though the RFID reader IС market demand continues to increase, the existing
technology still has some aspects to be improved, such as the number of tags
identified simultaneously, misreading, high power consumption, etc. The project
provides a new design solution for the application problems and a chip
architecture solution with core competencies, combined with the application of
blockchain technology.
Figure 2.4 and Figure 2.5 show the block diagram of the reader IC and the tag
IC, respectively. The RFID tag IC design integrates innovative encryption
capabilities, so it’s suitable for blockchain technology applications and has a good
anti-interference ability and sensitivity index. Its demanding power design can
meet the current stringent requirements for power consumption, and the on-chip
antenna technology and antenna matching technology have been significantly
enhanced to improve the performance.

15

RF Front-End/
Analog Front End

Controller

Modulator/
Demodulator
Baseband

Nonvolatile Memory

Power Manage

Oscillator

Encrypt and Decrypt

Figure 2.4: The project’s reader IC solution block diagram

RF Front-End/
Analog Front End

USB/Ethernet

Modulator/
Demodulator

Encrypt and Decrypt
Power Manage

CPU
Filter
Baseband/Bus
Memory
LNA/PA

Encrypt and Decrypt

PLL

POR

GPIO/Uart/SPI/IIC

Figure 2.5: The project’s tag IC solution block diagram

The project’s IC design has the following significant advantages:

16

1) High security: The chip integrates asymmetric random password pair
generation logic, uses a core asymmetric encryption algorithm with
independent intellectual property rights and an optimized design without
increasing the cost and power consumption of the chip, enabling higher
communication security;
2) Optimized anti-collision design: The chip uses a binary tree anti-collision
algorithm with independent intellectual property rights and a time
division multiple access design, significantly improving the tag recognition
success rate and the number of identifiable tags at the same time;
3) High sensitivity: The chip uses an optimized noise suppression technology
to improve the noise factor at the receiving end and the overall receiver
sensitivity, which plays an important role in increasing the recognition
success rate; all these features enable the chip to have a greater
advantage in application in the Internet of Things.
4) Good compatibility: The chip can achieve high-frequency and
ultra-high frequency functions at the same time, the end customer can read
the information and inquire about reliable product information through a
smartphone.

2.3

The Software of the Value Internet of Things

2.3.1 The Interpretation of WALTON
WALTON is derived from Charlie Walton, who was born in California, died on
November 30, 2011. As the inventor of RFID technology, he devoted his life to the
development of RFID technology. He obtained the first patent related to RFID
technology in 1973 and eventually obtained more than 50 invention patents. He
started a new era of RFID and made outstanding contributions to the development
17

of RFID. At present, RFID technology is widely used in various applications all over
the world, from identification to freeway billing, mobile and credit card payment;
we can see RFID everywhere. The project was founded on November 30, 2016, the
fifth anniversary of the death of Charlie Walton. To commemorate the great
inventor of RFID technology, the project was named "Waltonchain" to carry
forward his invention and blaze a trail to the future.
The interpretation of WALTON is as follows:
WALTON = Wisdom Alters Label, Trade, Organization and Network.
W — Wisdom
A — Alters
L — Label: RFID label
T — Trade: trade mode based on the accounting mode of blockchain
O — Organization:

Organizational management model — decentralized
autonomous organization (DAO)

N — Network: the Internet of Things — P2P network mode

2.3.2 The Overall Structure of Waltonchain
The Waltonchain ecosystem uses an overall structure including a parent chain
and subchains (or child chains) where the parent chain is Waltonchain and the
token used for circulation and payment is called Waltoncoin. During the 1.0 stage
of the project, the parent chain — Waltonchain — is used to open up a complete
supply chain system of the apparel industry, including production, logistics,
warehousing and stores. Theoretically, there can be an infinite number of
subchains. For example, recognizers of a production workshop used to monitor
product quality can be used as nodes of a production subchain, and the production
workshops of a variety of brands together constitute the production subchain. For

18

another example, stores of a variety of apparel brands can constitute a sales
subchain.
The Waltonchain platform uses a hierarchical structure, including the bottom
layer, core layer, middle layer and application layer; the platform architecture is
shown in Figure 2.6.

Figure 2.6: Waltonchain platform structure

Waltonchain Bottom Layer
The bottom layer is developed based on Waltonchain. Waltonchain has many
advantages, please see the introduction of Waltonchain for details.

19

Waltonchain Core Layer
Waltonchain is developed based on the universal blockchain technology. To
meet common and individual requirements of different applications, the core layer
will include common and personalized features as a package to form core modules
of different applications.

Waltonchain Middle Layer
For different applications, Waltonchain has dedicated and common interfaces
to call for the application layer. The middle layer is used to achieve the package of
these interfaces, thus simplifying the work of the application layer and reducing
the application difficulty.

Waltonchain Application Layer
As for the top-layer content, users or the Waltonchain team can develop an
appropriate platform or environment based on different application scenarios to
meet individual, team or business needs of an application.

2.3.3 Waltonchain Protocol and Waltoncoin
The detailed structure of Waltonchain
The detailed structure of Waltonchain is shown in Fig. 2.7 below. Clothing
industry application was selected as an example to show the subchain structure.

20

Clothing
subchain
Production

Warehouse

Factory- Warehouse- WarehouseProduct
out
registration
in node
out node
node
node

Control
node

Control
node

Logistics

Shipment
node

Store
Goods
reception
node

Delivery
node

Stock-in
node

Control
Store sales node
node

Control
node
Subchain token
circulation

Clothing industry

Application
level

Catering

Logistics

Waltoncoin
consumption for
subchain creation
Waltonchain subchain structure

Waltonchain
block

Core level

block

block

block

User wallet
node

Contract node

User wallet
node
Contract node

The structure of fully
decentralized parent
chain

block

Company node

Waltonchain parent chain node structure

Bottom
level
The structure of blockchain-based P2P parent chain network

Figure 2.7: The detailed structure of Waltonchain

21

Company node

Waltonchain Parent Chain
The Waltonchain parent chain is the main chain of the Waltonchain
blockchain, starting from the Waltonchain Genesis Block, which provides a wealth
of functions including but not limited to Waltoncoin (WTC) transaction
management, subchain management, smart contract, alias and account control,
etc.
1) transaction management
A total of 100 million of WTCs are issued, created in the genesis block and
assigned to each account in accordance with established program. The total
amount of WTCs in the subsequent transactions remains the same. Through the
decentralized network, more accounts will be created through the nodes, and a lot
of WTC transactions will also be carried out between the accounts. Every 60
seconds, all the transactions during the current period will be recorded to a block,
linked to the previous block, forming the Waltonchain parent chain. The parent
chain is the public ledger of WTC transactions stored dispersedly in nodes in the
network to ensure safety and reliability of transaction data.
2) subchain management
Another major function of Waltonchain parent chain is the management of
subchain which can be created by any account at any time after the parent chain
runs. The creator can customize the detail functions of the subchain and specific
information of the subchain tokens. This custom information forms the data
structure describing the subchain, which is recorded in the block of the current
period by the accounting nodes in a way similar to the WTC transaction record. So
far this subchain will be used as a separate blockchain, recording the transactions
of the subchain tokens.

22

Since the WTC transactions are only recorded in the parent chain, the parent
chain runs independently of the subchain. The nodes running on the parent chain
only need to save the parent chain data to conduct consensus and validation of
WTC transaction blocks. This flexible creation mechanism of WTC subchain makes
subchains scalable, the state of subchains has no effect on the completeness and
safety of the parent chain; except for recording the subchain description
information, the number of subchains will not increase the size of the parent chain.
3) smart contract
In the system architecture of the Waltonchain blockchain, the smart contract
based on its programmable features is responsible for building the underlying logic
platform and supporting the operation of the upper architecture layers, namely
the core layer, the middle layer and the application layer. It is the cornerstone of
Waltonchain, which enables it to develop a wider range of custom applications.
Smart contract technology is developed by Ethereum and has been applied in
the electronic token release, electronic crowdfunding, electronic contracts,
electronic equity distribution and other fields. The Waltonchain blockchain
technology defines two types of account concepts: one is the general account
storing the tokens; the other is the smart contract account storing smart contract
procedures. When a transaction is sent to the smart contract account address, the
corresponding smart contract procedure will be triggered and implemented. The
procedure will use the data of the received transaction, the data stored in this
account and the current block status data as input data, will perform the
customized operations, make transaction requests, modify the account status data
and execute other result behaviors.
4) other functions

23

Decentralized asset transactions: supporting the decentralized asset
transactions of the parent chain WTCs and subchain coins;
Decentralized grading system: grading according to the performance of the
account nodes’ trading behaviors such as mortgage;
Decentralized alias system: facilitating the realization of the transactions by
alias;
Account control;
Voting system;
Cross currency transactions;

Waltonchain Subchain
1) subchain functional features
During its creation, a subchain can be customized to support all the functional
features of the parent chain, or can be limited to certain functional features to
achieve the customization of the appropriate features. The supported custom
features mainly include subchain token transactions, subchain token and parent
chain token transactions, cross subchain token transactions, smart contracts,
aliases, voting system, account control, instant messaging and data storage.
2) subchain token transactions
By customization, the subchain can support subchain native token
transactions, subchain token and parent chain token transactions and cross
subchain token transactions. When a cross token transaction is made, the holder of
the token makes a transaction request, the transaction request information
contains the transaction type (buy or sell), the local token type, the target token
24

type, transaction price and the number of transaction tokens. Then the
Waltonchain protocol will match the buy and sell transactions in a decentralized
way, which is open, fair, reliable and traceable compared to the traditional trading
centers.

Block Structure
The trading ledgers of WTCs are stored in the Waltonchain blocks that are
series connected, forming the Waltonchain parent chain and subchains. These
blockchains are stored in many nodes on the Waltonchain network, making the
WTC transaction records open, safe, decentralized, traceable and tamper-resistant.
The core component of this ambitious, secure and decentralized data structure is
the block data structure designed by the Waltonchain team. It provides the parent
chain with the features of safe, stable and fast response and provides subchains
with a flexible combination of features, so as to adapt to a variety of Internet of
Things applications and to match customized business models.
A Waltonchain block can contain up to 255 transaction records. Each
transaction record contains a header carrying the identification information. The
general information contained in the block is as follows:
Block depth and timestamp
Block identity
Block account ID and public key
The identity of the previous block and the hash value
The total number of tokens of the transactions contained in the block and
byte fee
The transaction information contained in the block
25

Block payload length and payload hash value
The generated signature of the block
Accumulated coinage difficulty of the block

Consensus Mechanism
1) PoST Consensus mechanism
The Waltonchain parent chain conducts block consensus and validation based
on the Proof of Stake & Trust (PoST) consensus mechanism. PoST is an innovative
updated version based on the Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism.
The traditional PoS is a distributed consensus algorithm, which is an upgraded
version of the Bitcoin Proof of Work (PoW) consensus algorithm. In the PoW
consensus algorithm, the nodes involved in the consensus need to continue trying
to solve the problem of cryptography, to confirm the transaction, then write into
the block and get tokens as a reward. In most cases, this reward comes from the
unallocated tokens, so the process is vividly called mining. Because the mining is
more and more difficult as the “mineral resources” reduce, a lot of computing
resources tend to be wasted. In the blockchain network based on the PoS
consensus algorithm, in most cases, all the tokens are issued from very beginning,
then the block is successfully created and written into the accounting nodes of the
blockchain; the accounting reward is the byte fee paid by the transaction initiation
node, so the consensus mechanism is vividly called coinage. The more the tokens
held by nodes are involved in the consensus and the longer the time to hold the
tokens is, the bigger the opportunity to successfully complete the block creation
and writing are. This mechanism greatly reduces the operation difficulty of
accounting, saves valuable computing resources and at the same time provides a

26

mechanism of selecting “good” accounting nodes to strengthen the security of the
blockchain.
Waltonchain constructed an innovative node reputation evaluation system
which added a node reputation mechanism to adjust the difficulty of coinage
based on PoS and highlight the importance of reputation in business ecology, and
creatively designed the PoST consensus mechanism. This consensus mechanism
brings two positive effects: first, based on the commercial credit link of a
combination of Waltonchain blockchain and RFID, it can further promote and train
the integrity behaviors of the involved nodes through the information evaluation
mechanism, for example, keeping good credit record in credit mortgage and other
transactions, to cultivate a healthy business ecology; second, it provides an
upgraded selection mechanism to choose more honest “high quality” nodes as
coinage nodes, improving the security of the blockchain.
2) Other consensus mechanisms
The flexible structure of Waltonchain blockchain determines that the
subchains can choose PoS, PoST or other consensus mechanisms to achieve the
optimal application effect in different application scenarios.
By issuing different subchains, Waltonchain connects different types of
Internet of Things nodes to apply to various scenarios in the business ecology. Due
to the diversity of the Internet of Things, sometimes the Internet of Things needs
many nodes online at the same time, which is quite different from the Internet, so
we propose an innovative solution which sets the consensus mechanism flexibly
based on the different application scenarios, to meet different application
requirements.

27

Byte Fee Allocation
The byte fee is the cost paid by the transaction initiation node to the
accounting node, which is used to pay for the occupancy of network bandwidth
and blockchain bytes in the process of paying the transaction. The accounting node
can set the minimum cost that can be accepted, and the transaction initiation node
can set the maximum cost to be paid. When both conditions are met, the
transaction will be successfully written to the blockchain.
The byte fee is the source power driving the blockchain to account, as the
accounting node performs block calculation and consensus verification to obtain
the byte fee; the node needs to pay the transaction surcharge to initiate the token
transaction and the subchain creation.
1) allocation of byte fee for token transactions
Waltonchain supports parent chain token transactions, subchain token
transactions and cross-chain token transactions. When dealing with various types
of token transactions, the transaction initiation nodes need to pay the byte fee
with parent chain tokens. This can make the parent chain token become the single
token used as a reward token of the parent chain accounting node and the
subchain accounting node, finally achieving the following two positive effects.
First, the parent chain and each subchain can share the accounting nodes in
the network to the maximum, so that the accounting nodes will freely choose
different parent chains and subchains based on the profit efficiency, without fear
of inconvenient exchange and paying multiple byte fees, which is beneficial to the
reasonable allocation of the node resources. And for some of the subchains in the
early stages of the establishment, there is no need to worry about the problem of
insufficient accounting nodes, because they can share the accounting nodes of the
parent chain and other subchains.
28

Second, when more subchains are created and the subchain transactions
become more and more frequent, the demand for the parent chain tokens which
are used as the currency to pay for byte fees will rise; since the number of the
parent chain tokens remains the same, the value of each parent chain token will
increase. As a result, the nodes holding the parent chain tokens will gain an
interest from subchain development as the number of the subchains and
transactions increases.
2) allocation of byte fee for subchain creation
The Waltonchain parent chain supports the creation of subchains. When
creating a subchain, the account that creates the nodes needs to pay the byte fee
with parent chain tokens, to prevent the malicious creation of many subchains.
Parent chain tokens will be obtained as a reward for writing the block containing
the description of this subchain into the accounting node of the blockchain.

Waltoncoin
As mentioned above, in the Waltonchain ecosystem, the most core parent
chain is called Waltonchain in which the token used for circulation and payment is
called Waltoncoin (hereinafter referred to as WTC). WTC is the most important
digital token in the Waltonchain ecosystem. The total number of WTCs is 100
million (108), they were created and are located in the Genesis Block. This number
is constant, and no more tokens will be issued.

Waltoncoin’s Main Functions
1) issuing subchains
WTCs need to be consumed to issue subchains, such as the production
subchain, the storage subchain, the logistics subchain and the sales subchain. Of
29

course, issuing subchains is not the privilege of the Waltonchain team, as any
Waltonchain ecosystem user can consume WTCs to issue its own subchains in the
Waltonchain ecosystem.
The consumed WTCs are allocated to the accounting node wallet to support
the parent chain. This is how the PoST mechanism is realized.
2) reward interest distribution
Waltonchain team officially issues basic subchains, such as the sales subchain
used in stores (assuming the token is A coin) and the transaction subchain used in
the retail industry (assuming the token is B coin). In the above high-frequency
circulation sections, even if the transaction fee for each transaction is very small,
many small fees can add up to a substantial number. Therefore, in order to ensure
the robustness of the subchains and the parent chain at the same time, the
allocation mechanism regarding the consumed fees needs some innovative
adjustments. The majority (e.g. 90%) is assigned to the accounting node wallet of
the subchains, and the minority (e.g. 10%) is assigned to the accounting node
wallet of the parent chain.
3) credit and mortgage system
The account on the parent chain can form a credit mechanism. As the
circulation and consumption amount of subchains increases, the credit rating of
the corresponding account of the parent chain increases. Here is an application
scenario: a customer needs to pay for his consumption at A store, A store supports
A coins, but the customer does not have any A coin, then the customer can pay by
mortgaging parent chain WTCs (in a frozen state), A store and the customer sign a
smart contract on the chain automatically to set an agreed time to return A coins
when such WTC coins will be unfrozen. Correspondingly, the credit rating of this
account increases and the number of WTCs needed for mortgage decreases.
30

However, if the A coins fail to be paid back, the number of WTCs frozen for
mortgage will increase correspondingly.
4) distributed asset exchange
If we exchange assets on the parent chain, the parent chain will be able to
exchange the assets of any subchain tokens on any subchain. This allows the
subchains to interact with each other and opens up many collaboration
opportunities to allow cross-chain asset transactions, which is also a required
function in the Waltonchain ecosystem in the long term.
5) distributed voting and governance system
This system will be the core of decentralization in the future. Safe and
anonymous voting will be available for all subchains on the parent chain.
6) decentralized exchange
All the coins on the subchains can be traded in the decentralized exchange on
the parent chain, where the digital currency used to act as an intermediary is WTC.
Of course, only some of the core functions of WTC are mentioned above. WTC
has more functions, and as the project progresses, the Waltonchain team will give
WTC more advanced features.

2.3.4 Waltonchain ecosystem
An example of Waltonchain ecosystem application for the apparel industry is
shown in Figure 2.8 below.

31

Figure 2.8: Waltonchain ecosystem 1.0 stage

The whole ecosystem is composed of several master nodes and child nodes,
so the ecosystem is not limited to the applications in the apparel industry, but also
applicable to the fields of warehousing, logistics, electronic license plate and asset
management. Here we only take a simple example to explain the application in the
apparel industry.

Production
In the early stage of production, the production target is made according to
the production plan and related needs. In the first phase of production, a unique
RFID will be generated for each product. The status and related information of this
ID will be recorded at each child node in the production, also at each subsequent
master node and corresponding child node. The contents of the status and
32

information are negotiated by the master nodes. Each node is rewarded according
to the contribution in the form of Waltoncoin. The number of awards can be
determined based on the workload or the work quality of the corresponding node
or the specific situation of the application.

Warehousing
This node mainly refers to the storage after production, containing three
sections: warehouse-in inspection, storage location and warehouse-out inspection.
Each section has a corresponding reader to record the corresponding information
and form a corresponding block in this master node of warehousing to connect
with the block generated in the production.

Logistics
This node is similar to the previous one, it mainly records the status and
information in the process of transportation and forms the corresponding block
data.

Stores
This node can be a store, or many stores. Each store is regarded as a master
node to record the status and information of the product as well as customer
information and preferences. This node can give a customer the corresponding
reward according to the customer’s consumption situation in the form of
Waltoncoins and include the customer into the master node according to the
amount of Waltoncoins held by the customer and give the customer the
appropriate permissions. The customer can check all product information and all
billing data, but needs to pay certain Waltoncoins. The customer can also use
Waltoncoins to purchase the corresponding products.
33

Main Characteristics of the System
1. Each child node is equipped with a reader and connected to the master
node;
2. The master node is connected to the Internet, it is online in real time;
3. Each master node manages the bills. The data between the master nodes
are transparent;
4. After the nodes reach a consensus, the number of various master nodes
can continue to increase;
5. According to the amount of Waltoncoins held by the purchaser, the
purchaser can be included in the node after the nodes reach a consensus
and vote for the rights of accounting and checking to be authorized to the
purchaser;
6. Checking bills and accounting will consume Waltoncoins (as handling
fees);
7. The purchaser can also directly pay Waltoncoins to purchase clothing.

Main Advantages of the System
1. Can really achieve tracing the source;
2. Can really achieve the purpose of unforgeability;
3. Can achieve decentralization without the concern of trust;
4. Can reduce labor costs.

34

Multi-User Consensus Security Mechanism
1. The mechanism generates a set of random numbers by the master node;
2. Divides this set of random numbers into N parts (N is an integer and
greater than 2/3 of the number of all users);
3. Encrypts N parts of random numbers with the public key of N users
separately;
4. All users decrypt this set of random numbers with their own private key;
5. When the master node receives all the correct data, it is considered that
this accounting or modification is valid.

2.4

Application Scenarios: Waltonchain Project’s System
Solutions for the Apparel Industry
With the rapid development and integration of the Internet of things, mobile

Internet, cloud computing and other information technology, the intelligent
management of information has become a key factor in the rapid growth and
improvement of enterprises. As a core technology of Internet of things, the RFID is
widely used in the intelligent warehousing and logistics management, and the
apparel industry is one of the most promising fields for applying RFID technology.
Due to the apparel industry’s particularity and complexity, thorny problems
exist in various links in the value chain of traditional apparel industry, including
logistics, warehousing, sorting business, store sales and inventory. For example,
complex product specifications with various size, styles and rapid changes;
frequent unpacking and messy piles; slow turnover in warehousing management,
production, inventory and distribution; great reliance on staff experience for

35

searching needed commodity; big difference between stock-in and stock-out;
difficulty in taking inventory; heavy workload; FCL and one-piece warehousing
modes coexist; impossibility of tracing the clothing sources. Therefore, pasting,
embedding or implanting RFID tags on the tag of each piece of clothing can
increase supply chain management transparency and inventory turnover, reduce
the loss due to out of stock, enhance the store experience and increase consumer
satisfaction, while conducting real-time intelligent data analysis and collecting data
to guide the garment enterprises to adjust their product design, production and
inventory in a timely manner.

2.4.1 Analysis on the Dilemma of the Traditional Apparel
Manufacturing
The 13th Five-Year Plan for China’s apparel industry clearly points out that we
need to speed up the construction of flexible supply chain management system
and intelligent warehousing, logistics and distribution system with RFID as the core,
to improve the system functions and the adaptability of business process
reengineering, to achieve a seamless connection of various management systems,
to promote big data, “Internet +” and other technology applications, to improve
the intelligent level of managerial decision-making, to vigorously promote the
mass customization technology and its manufacturing model, to promote the
transformation from garment manufacturing to garment services and to promote
the deep integration of manufacturing and services and to enhance the application
level comprehensively.
In recent years, the overall retail sales of the apparel industry grew steadily,
the total domestic sales volume has been increasing, online channels expand
rapidly, the growth rate of offline sales going down, the domestic market loses

36

momentum and export faces major difficulties. The apparel industry needs to
speed up structural adjustment, transformation and upgrading.
Facing the “new normal” of slow growth and steady total volume the
traditional manufacturing companies are impacted by, the clothing manufacturing
section is compelled to upgrade in order to improve the competitiveness of
garment enterprises. The apparel manufacturing is transforming from the mode of
large quantities, less varieties and long cycle to the mode of small quantities, more
varieties, short delivery and customization.

2.4.2 Smart Manufacturing Solution for the Apparel Industry
The traditional apparel industry is a labor-intensive industry characterized by
overall multi-variety, rapid changes and relatively low level of informatization and
intelligentization. The production process is shown in Figure 2.9.

Figure 2.9: Traditional garment production and processing flow diagram

Based on the above characteristics, the future intelligent garment factory is a
Customer to Manufactory (C2M) customization platform; the consumer demand
directly drives the effective supply of the factory, as shown in Figure 2.10.
37

Figure 2.10: An example of an intelligent garment factory

So, with a data-driven production process, online design, order-taking,
customization data transmission are all digitalized, forming an operating system of
demand data collection, demand data to production data transformation, smart
research and development and design, smart production scheduling, smart
automatic typography, data-driven value chain collaboration, data-driven
production, data-driven quality assurance, data-driven logistics and distribution,
data-driven customer service and fully digital customer service. As shown in Figure
2.11, the RFID-based smart production line greatly improves the efficiency of
industrialization, shortens the production cycle to 7 working days while the
personalized manufacturing costs are only 10% higher than those of the mass
manufacturing, truly realizing the mass customization of personalized products.
Everyone will be able to afford customized clothing.

38

Figure 2.11: RFID-based intelligent production line structure diagram

2.4.3 Smart Logistics & Warehousing Solution for the Apparel
Industry
The apparel industry logistics has the following characteristics: diverse
management objects, various brands, diverse types, many SKUs (Stock Keeping
Unit); diverse sales models, complex logistics channels, generally including “online
+ offline” model and “directly managed stores + franchises + agents” model; strong
seasonality, rapid logistics response required, different products for spring,
summer, autumn and winter, short product life cycle, usually 2 to 3 months;
difficult inventory control, long production and marketing chain, many sections,
multi-level

segmented

inventory,

generally

including

factory

inventory,

headquarters inventory and channel inventory; multi-stage network for logistics
and distribution, including Headquarters logistics distribution, branch logistics
distribution and agent logistics distribution.

39

The apparel logistics network is a three-tier separated network where a
variety of logistics channels coexist, usually with a model of raw materials and
accessories distribution + finished product distribution + terminal distribution by
factories + headquarters + subsidiaries . The types of business operation include
wholesale, retail, e-commerce and group purchase. The products include different
logistics channels of various brands. The logistics problems are as follows: long
logistics channel, the overall logistics channel includes factory warehouse —
headquarters warehouse — subsidiary warehouse — store or factory warehouse —
headquarters warehouse — agent/dealer warehouse; high supply chain inventory,
low storage efficiency, too many inventory points, the storage cycle is usually 180
days, with backward warehousing management methods and means; multi-stage
transportation, complex management, the transportation modes include container
shipping by the factory, distribution and transportation by the headquarters,
distribution and transportation by the branch/agent, etc. Based on the above
characteristics of the logistics, we put forward a smart storage solution shown in
Figure 2.12.

40

Figure 2.12: The intelligent warehousing solution

2.4.4 Smart Store Solution for the Apparel Industry
Figure 2.13 shows the functional scenes of a smart store. At the point of
arrival, before the goods go into the store, the staff shall use RFID PDA to batch
read the data on the clothing tags, match with the receipt, check the quantities
and models of goods and correct errors manually.

41

Figure 2.13: Smart store functional scene diagram

Specific functions are as follows.
Quick stocktaking function: the staff uses the PDA to collect clothing label
information and transmit to the background server for data comparison, the
difference is displayed on the PDA in real time for manual check and the
stocktaking information on the back-end server is updated through the PDA.
Quick find function: the staff enters the label information of the product to be
found into the RFID PDA to turn on the search mode and quickly locate the specific
location of the product according to the beep produced based on the strength of
the signal.
Smart hanger function: when the customer picks up the clothes on the smart
hanger, the smart hanger automatically identifies the clothing label in the hands of
the customer, the touch screen displays all the information of the clothes in a
timely manner and inputs the data into the background server at the same time;

42

the analyzing software automatically counts the data and generates statistical
reports of each period for managers to view.
Smart fitting room function: when the customer picks up the clothes and
walks into the fitting room, the smart fitting room automatically identifies the
clothing label in the hands of the customer, the touch screen displays all the
information of the clothes in a timely manner and inputs the data into the
background server at the same time; the analyzing software automatically counts
the data and generates statistical reports of each period (hour/month) for
managers to view and estimate the production plan and popular designs according
to the fitting rate.
Quick check-out function: with RFID, the target information can be identified
automatically, the receiver can read multiple tags at once within its effective
working range to achieve the simultaneous identification of multiple products,
thus speeding up the check-out process and improving customer satisfaction.
Figure 2.14 shows a smart fitting room. Icons 1 & 2: the staff reads the clothes
label and transmits the data to the service desk; icon 3: the service desk pushes
information to the match system for selection; icons 4 & 5: the customer chooses
the product to try and informs the help desk; icons 6 & 7: the staff uses the PDA to
quickly find the product and sends to the customer.

43

Figure 2.14: The smart dressing room functional scene diagram

With RFID system solution developed by the Waltonchain team based on the
blockchain technology, the end customers can use bar codes or RFID tags to
identify all system information of every clothing product, including accessories,
fabric, production process, logistics and distribution and store it in the blockchain
system. For brands in the clothing business, the functions of tamper-resistance,
reliability, anti-counterfeiting and traceability can be achieved. Once the
companies find any problems, they can effectively control and recall products
according to the source tracing and protect the legitimate rights and interests of
consumers fundamentally. Consumers can rest assured to buy their favorite
products; the system enhances shopping experience and improves consumer
satisfaction.

44

Part 3 Future — Value Internet of Things Will
Change the World
3.1

The Stage Planning of the Waltonchain Project
As mentioned above, the realization of Value Internet of Things will create a

new ecology of the existing business, which is based on the organic integration of
the blockchain and the Internet of Things. The combination of RFID technology and
Waltonchain will extend the blockchain technology from the Internet to the
Internet of Things and create an authentic, trustworthy, traceable and fully
transparent business ecosystem with fully-shared data. The Waltonchain team
carefully planned four growth stages starting from building the underlying
foundation, gradually extending to a retail and logistics network and finally
integrating product manufacturers. Step by step, in the forthcoming future
Waltonchain will achieve the full coverage of commercial ecology.
During the Waltonchain Project 1.0 stage, the team has developed a clothing
system integration solution based on RFID technology, which has been applied in
several pilots such as Tries, SMEN and Kaltendin. Now we are ready for large-scale
promotion and need to lay a solid customer base. We have started to develop the
RFID beacon chip with independent intellectual property rights, which innovatively
integrates an asymmetric encryption algorithm based on the traditional RFID chip
and expected to achieve the perfect combination of Internet of Things and
blockchain. Combined with the integrated solution for the apparel industry based
on RFID technology, it is expected to solve the problems of the traditional apparel
industry including warehousing, logistics, stores and aftermarket, and in the
meantime, to consolidate the basic platform of Waltoncoin. The application

45

scenarios of the project’s 1.0 stage will build a Golden demonstration template for
the rapid promotion of Waltonchain’s applications.
During the Waltonchain Project 2.0 stage, the independently developed RFID
beacon chip will be in full mass production and can be used in B2C retail industry
and logistics industry. Development of a smart credit system will be completed,
fully integrating payment, gifting, same currency transactions, different currency
transactions, etc. through Waltonchain’s flexible and powerful token creation and
transaction functions. Availability of complete information, including merchandise
procurement, distribution, stock-in, stock-out, stores, shelves inventory, sales,
customer purchase, customer evaluation and after-sales service, on the chain will
be achieved through an optimized blockchain data structure design. Customers will
be provided with such functions as payment, integral management and trading,
product evaluation and query, tracing and obtaining evidence for a quality
problem, etc. Merchants will be provided with automatic management of business
operations, information mining during procurement, sales, after-sales and
information on real-time market trends. Thus a win-win-win situation will be
achieved for all three parties: customers, merchants and Waltonchain. By virtue of
a blockchain data structure matching multi-scenarios, the logistics industry will be
able to achieve availability of full path logistics information on the chain, covering
the complete business process including pricing, packing, sorting & distribution,
warehouse management, sorting & sending, home delivery, customer receipt and
customer feedback. Based on characteristics of RFID such as being tamper-resistant,
open, traceable etc., the stage is aimed at building a safe and reliable
point-to-point logistics information channel for customers and provision of a
business automatic management information platform for logistics companies to
avoid thorny problems, such as lost, delayed and wrong orders on a systematic
basis.

46

During the Waltonchain Project 3.0 stage, the technology will be applied to all
product manufacturers to achieve smart packaging and traceable customization.
The universal data structure used in describing the production cycle will be
effectively written to the blockchain. The customized data structure will be
designed for different products. With RFID identity verification, the authenticity
and reliability of the information added to the chain is guaranteed. The whole
process will be covered, including raw material purchasing, production operations,
assembly operations, product packaging and product inventory management. Raw
material sources and production quality can be verified and the quality problem
source can be tracked by taking the advantages of openness and traceability of
blockchain. The possibility of counterfeit can be eliminated and the information
barrier can be removed to ensure the consumers’ interests fundamentally. At the
same time, low-cost data information solutions can be provided to product
manufacturers by means of standardized and reliable recording of manufacturing
operation information via blockchain so as to achieve smart management for
manufacturers.
During the Waltonchain Project 4.0 stage, with upgrading and iteration of the
asset information acquisition hardware and improvement of the blockchain data
structure, all the assets will be registered on Waltonchain in the future so as to
solve the problems of asset ownership, item traceability and transaction certificate.
By then, Waltonchain and Waltoncoin will be widely used in the physical world,
fundamentally changing the way of life and production worldwide — Waltonchain
project will bring a more convenient, intelligent and trustworthy world to
everybody, and at the same time, give handsome returns to investors of
Waltonchain.
In accordance with the four stages of the project, the project team will
develop a variety of information collection-related chips, including dual-band RFID
chips, biometric chips and various sensor chips. The team will not only provide
47

secure interfaces for all physical assets to be on the chain, but also provide secure
interfaces for human beings, all kinds of animals, creatures to be on the chain, to
realize safe and reliable networking, aggregation, digitization of all things,
completely change people’s way of life and bring more convenience to human life.
The application scope of Waltonchain will be gradually extended to every life scene,
as shown in Figure 3.1.

Figure 3.1: The scope of application of Waltonchain

3.2

The Investment Value of the Waltonchain Project
1) Innovation mode: the Waltonchain Project intends to develop an RFID

beacon chip with independent intellectual property rights, which is expected to
achieve the perfect combination of Internet of Things and blockchain. The
researched and developed chips will bind Waltoncoins to create the intelligent
48

ecosphere of application of Internet of Things based on Waltonchain. During the
course of expanding blockchain technology to the Internet of Things, Waltonchain
will definitely become the leader of the changing times;
2) Market space: with a trillion-level potential market, Waltonchain has
possessed the applicable program able to be quickly implemented in the total
value chains in the clothing industry, including the production, storage, logistics,
stores and other full circulation areas. Years of working experience and customer
resources accumulated by the team members in the clothing industry and
electronics industry will provide favorable conditions for the implementation of
the project. In the foreseeable future, it is also expected to be used in many fields
like electronic license plate and asset management, etc.;
3) High-frequency application: Waltonchain is loaded on the RFID hardware
system to break through the bottleneck in commercial application of blockchain,
namely, the problem of how real assets off the chain are chained quickly,
efficiently and safely. Therefore, Waltonchain is a commercial ecological chain with
a low threshold and high-frequency application where the range of application
scenarios will be wide and popularity very high;
4) Ecological network: Waltonchain will establish the ecological chain of
Internet of Things with its own content. As the only token of fundamental chain for
this ecological network, Waltoncoin will be circulated in a wide range of business
areas, so it has multiple significant functions including value storage, value
circulation, credit trading, commodity payment medium etc. With the increasing
popularity of RFID beacons and the expanding demand for the network, the
demand for Waltoncoin will be expanding correspondingly, so Waltonchain’s early
investors will get substantial returns with the development and growth of
Waltonchain.

49

5) Profit mechanism: Waltoncoins issued by ICO are the tokens of
Waltonchain’s parent chain. With the development of the parent chain and its
subchains, according to the protocol mechanism of Waltonchain system,
Waltoncoin, as the mother token, will receive dividends from all levels of the
system in order to nurture the blockchain system of Waltonchain, making it more
robust and safer and bringing about a harmonious virtuous circulation.

50

Part 4 Project Foundation
The project foundation was established in 2017, known as the Waltonchain
Foundation. The Foundation is committed to the development of the Waltonchain
project, the promotion and implementation of RFID applications and the
promotion of early development of decentralized applications. 20% of the initial
WTCs will be used for some industry applications and start-up projects, such as
financial services, supply chain, Internet of things, blockchain, etc., including
project strategic planning, project support, project promotion and token exchange.
The Foundation will select the decentralized applications developed on
Waltonchain and provide rewards based on the actual number of users on the
applications.
The overall structure of the foundation is shown in Figure 4.1. The
Decision-Making Committee shall have three

subdepartments,

including

Technology Development Committee, Finance and Personnel Management
Committee and Project Operations Committee, which shall be responsible for the
development, implementation and supervision of technology development
strategies; the development, implementation and supervision of the financial
system; the decision-making and implementation of the overall project operation
and marketing, respectively. The members of the Decision-Making Committee
change every four years. The members generally include two representatives
recommended by each subcommittee: a project investor representative, a
community representative and a member of the Waltonchain team. The members
of the subcommittees change every four years. The members are generally
prominent people from related industries.

51

Decision Making
Committee

Technology Development

Financial and Personnel

Project Operations

Committee

Management Committee

Committee

Figure 4.1: The overall structure of the Waltonchain Foundation

The Foundation promotes a transparent and efficient operational philosophy
to promote the healthy development of the Waltonchain ecosystem. The
governance structure mainly focuses on the effectiveness, sustainability and
financial security of project management. The foundation’s mission is to promote
the development of blockchain technology from the Internet to the Internet of
things and to invest the funds raised by ICO in the following directions:
1. Planning to develop the RFID beacon chips with independent intellectual
property rights which use an asymmetric encryption algorithm with
independent intellectual property rights and can achieve the perfect
combination of the Internet of Things and the blockchain;
2. Establishing a smart credit system fully integrating payment, gifting, same
currency transactions, different currency transactions, etc. through WTC's
flexible and powerful token creation and transaction functions;
3. Availability of complete information, including merchandise procurement,
distribution, stock-in, stock-out, stores, shelves inventory, sales, customer
purchase, customer evaluation and after-sales service, on the chain will be
52

achieved through an optimized blockchain data structure design, which ends
up with a win-win-win situation for customers, merchants and Waltonchain;
4. By virtue of a blockchain data structure matching multi-scenes, it is aimed at
building a safe and reliable point-to-point logistics information channel for
customers and providing business automatic management information
platform for logistics companies to avoid thorny problems such as lost,
delayed and wrong orders on a systematic basis.
5. Applying to the product manufacturers and achieving smart packaging and
traceable product customization.
The projects above will provide convenient data query and traceability,
analysis and processing and transaction management interfaces to customers,
provide smart management interface to businesses. With the further application of
machine learning and artificial intelligence, an intelligent ecosystem of the
complete supply chain will ultimately be created, including a production, logistics,
stores, sales and after-sales service.

53

Part 5 Team Introduction
第五部分 团队简介
5.1 Initiators
Xu Fangcheng (initiator in China): Chinese, majored in
Business Management, former Director for Supply Chain
Management of Septwolves Group Ltd., has rich practical
experience in supply chain management and purchasing
process management. Currently, he is the Director of
Shenzhen Silicon, the Director of Xiamen Silicon and the
Board Chairman of Quanzhou Silicon. He is also one of our
Angel investors.

Do Sang Hyuk (initiator in Korea): Korean, Vice
Chairman of the China-Korea Cultural Exchange
Development Committee, Chairman of Korea NC Technology
Co., Ltd., former Director of the South Korea Electronic
News Media Bureau, Director of ET News, Former Director
of Korean Standards Association, Chairman of Small and
Medium-Sized Enterprise Committee in Seongnam, South
Korea, Representative of Jiangsu Mingxing Liangcheng
Environmental Protection Co., Ltd., China.

54

5.2 Senior Advisors
Kim Suk Ki (Internet of Things): Korean, one of the key
persons in South Korean electronics industry, Doctor of
Engineering (graduated from the University of Minnesota),
Professor of Korea University, previously worked at Bell
Labs and Honeywell USA, served as a Vice President of
Samsung Electronics, senior expert in integrated circuit
design, IEEE Senior Member, Vice President of the Korean
Institute of Electrical Engineers, Chairman of the Korea
Semiconductor Industry Association. He has published more
than 250 academic papers and possesses more than 60 patents.

Zhu Yanping (blockchain): Taiwanese, Doctor of
Engineering (graduated from National Cheng Kung
University), Chairman of the Cloud Computing & IoT
Association in Taiwan, Director of Information Management
Department of National Chung Hsing University. He has won
the Taiwan Ministry of Education Youth Invention Award
and Taiwan Top Ten Information Talent Award. Has deeply
studied blockchain applications over the years and led a
blockchain technology team to develop systems for health
big data and agricultural traceability projects.

55

5.3 Chief Experts
Mo Bing (Internet of Things): Chinese, PhD in
Engineering, post-doctor, his mentor is Professor Kim Suk Ki,
a well-known Korean expert in the field of integrated circuits.
He is a research professor of Korea University, distinguished
researcher of Sun Yat-Sen University, expert in Internet of
Things, expert in integrated circuits, senior member of the
Chinese Society of Micro-Nano Technology, IEEE member.
He is a high-level talent of Fuzhou city under the Bringing in
Talents campaign. Evaluation expert of science and
technology programs at Fujian Province Science and
Technology Department, evaluation expert of science and
technology programs at Jiangxi Province Science and
Technology Department, Director of Xiamen City Integrated
Circuit Association, an expert team member at Tape-out
Subsidies Review Committee. At present, he has presided
over 10 scientific research projects, published more than 20
articles and applied for 18 invention patents. In 2013, he
began to contact Bitcoin, is one of the earliest users of
Bitcoin and Korbit. Since 2015, he mainly engaged in
research of integrated circuits and blockchain. Two
commercial chips have been successfully developed under
his guidance.

56

Wei Songjie (blockchain): Chinese, Doctor of
Engineering (graduated from the University of Delaware),
Associate Professor of Nanjing University of Science and
Technology, Core Member and Master Supervisor of
Network Space Security Engineering Research Institute,
blockchain technology expert in the field of computer
network protocol and application, network and information
security. Has published more than 20 papers and applied for
7 invention patents. Previously worked at Google,
Qualcomm, Bloomberg and many other high-tech
companies in the United States, served as R&D engineer and
technical expert; has a wealth of experience in computer
system design, product development and project
management.

5.4 Team Members
Shan Liang: Chinese, graduated from KOREATECH
(Korea University of Technology and Education) Mechanical
Engineering Department, Venture Capital PhD, GM of
Waltonchain Technology Co., Ltd. (Korea), Director of Korea
Sungkyun Technology Co., Ltd., Chinese Market Manager of
the heating component manufacturer NHTECH, a subsidiary
of Samsung SDI, economic group leader of the Friendship
Association of Chinese Doctoral Students in Korea, one of
the earliest users of Korbit, senior digital money player.

57

Chen Zhangrong: Chinese, graduated in Business
Management, received a BBA degree in Armstrong
University in the United States, President of TIANYU
INTERNATIONAL GROUP LIMITED, leader of Chinese clothing
& accessories industry, China’s well-known business mentor,
guest of the CCTV2 Win in China show in 2008. Researcher in
the field of thinking training for “Practical Business
Intelligence” e-commerce and “MONEY&YOU” course,
expert on success for “Profit Model” course. Began to
contact Bitcoin in 2013 with a strong interest and in-depth
study of digital money and decentralized management
thinking. Has a wealth of practical experience in the business
management, market research, channel construction,
business cooperation and business model.
Lin Herui: Chinese, Dean of Xiamen Zhongchuan Internet
of Things Industry Research Institute, Chairman of Xiamen
Citylink Technology Co., Ltd., Chairman of Xiamen IOT. He
successively served as Nokia R&D Manager and Product
Manager, Microsoft Hardware Department Supply Chain
Director. In 2014, started to set up a number of IoT
enterprises and laid out the industrial chain of the Internet
of Things. The products and services developed under his
guidance are very popular. Assisted the government in
carrying out industrial and policy research and participated in
planning of multiple government projects of smart cities, IoT towns and project
reviews.

58

Ma Xingyi: Chinese, China Scholarship Council (CSC)
special student, Doctor of Engineering of Korea University,
Research Professor of Fusion Chemical Systems Institute of
Korea University, Korea Sungkyun Technology Co., Ltd. CEO,
Member of Korea Industry Association, Associate Member
of the Royal Society of Chemistry, has published his research
results in the world’s top journal Nature Communications
and participated in the preparation of a series of teaching
materials for Internet of Things engineering titled
“Introduction to the Internet of Things”. His current
research direction covers cross-disciplines that combine
blockchain technology with intelligent medical technology.
Zhao Haiming: Chinese, Doctor of Chemical Conductive
Polymer of Sungkyunkwan University, core member of
Korea BK21th conductive polymer project, researcher of
Korea Gyeonggi Institute of Sensor, researcher of Korea ECO
NCTech Co., Ltd., Vice President of the Chinese Chamber of
Commerce, Director of Korea Sungkyun Technology Co., Ltd.
He has been engaged in transfer of semiconductor, sensor
and other technologies in South Korea. He is an early
participant of the digital currency market.

59

Liu Cai: Chinese, Master of Engineering, has 12 years of
experience in design and verification of VLSI and a wealth of
practical project experience in RFID chip design process, SOC
chip architecture, digital-analog hybrid circuit design,
including algorithm design, RTL design, simulation
verification, FPGA prototype verification, DC synthesis,
back-end PR, package testing, etc. Has led a team to
complete the development of a variety of navigation and
positioning baseband chips and communication baseband
chips, finished a series of AES, DES and other encryption
module designs, won the first prize of GNSS and LBS
Association of China for scientific and technological progress.
Finally, he is an expert in the consensus mechanism principle
of blockchain and the related asymmetric encryption
algorithm.
Yang Feng: Chinese, Master of Engineering, worked at
ZTE. Artificial intelligence expert, integrated circuit expert.
Has 12 years of experience in VLSI research and
development, architecture design and verification and 5
years of research experience in artificial intelligence and the
genetic algorithm. Has won the Shenzhen Science and
Technology Innovation Award. Has done an in-depth
research on the principle and realization of the RFID
technology, the underlying infrastructure of blockchain,
smart contracts and the consensus mechanism algorithm.

60

Guo Jianping: Chinese, Doctor of Engineering
(graduated from the Chinese University of Hong Kong),
Associate Professor of the Hundred Talents Program of Sun
Yat-sen University, academic advisor of master’s degree
students, IEEE senior member, integrated circuit expert. Has
published more than 40 international journal & conference
papers in the field of IC design and applied for 16 patents in
China.
Huang Ruimin: Chinese, Doctor of Engineering
(graduated from the University of Freiburg, Germany),
academic advisor of master’s degree students, lecturer of
the Department of Electronics of Huaqiao University,
integrated circuit expert. Mainly explores digital signal
processing circuit and system implementation and works on
digital signal processing technology long-term research and
development.

Guo Rongxin, Chinese, Master of Engineering, Deputy
Director of the Communication Technology Research Center
of Huaqiao University. Has more than 10 years of experience
in design and development of hardware and software for
embedded systems, works on the long-term research and
development of RFID and blockchain technology in the field
of Internet of Things.

61

Li Shuai: Chinese, Master of Engineering, his research
focus lies in network security and blockchain access
authentication technology. The project on blockchain
distributed authentication completed under his direction
won the final first prize of the “2016 National Cryptography
Technology Competition”.

Huang Hongtai: Chinese, Bachelor of Engineering, has
five years of experience in WEB front and back-end
development, works on the long-term development of
Internet of Things platforms and educational information
platforms. Began to contact Bitcoin in 2011 and become an
early graphics card mining participant. Has a strong interest
in virtual currency and blockchain technology.
Dai Minhua: Chinese, graduated in Business
Management, received a BBA degree from Armstrong
University, senior financial expert, served as Vice President
and CFO of Tanyu International Group Co., Ltd. Has 13 years
of financial work experience, has a wealth of experience in
developing and implementing enterprise strategy and
business plans, as well as achieving business management
objectives and development goals.

62

Liu Dongxin: Chinese, received an MBA from China
Europe International Business School, Visiting Scholar of
Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University,
strategic management consulting expert, investment and
financing expert. His current research interest lies in the
impact of the blockchain technology on the financial sector.

5.5

Angel Investors
Song Guoping: Doctor of Medicine, President of Chinese Chamber of

Commerce in Korea, Director of Beijing Overseas Friendship Association,
representative of Ping An International Co., Ltd., representative of Oriental Xu Fu
Anti-Aging Center, Representative of Sumei Beauty Shaping.
Qiu Jun: Chairman of Shenzhen Hongtao Fund Management Co., Ltd., Vice
President of Shenzhen Shanwei Chamber of Commerce. Has 20 years of capital
market investment experience, experienced many magnificent market changes,
achieved a number of classic investment cases, including SMIC, China Merchants
Securities and Guangdong Danxia Biopharm, etc. Guangdong Danxia Biopharm was
acknowledged as one of the top ten successful cases of biopharmaceutical
investment in 2016.
Yan Xiaoqian: Chairman of Kaltendin Clothing Co., Ltd., Executive Vice
President of Shenzhen Shanwei Chamber of Commerce.
Lin Jingwei: Director of Guangzhou Jiuying Investment Management Co., Ltd.,
received a master’s degree in Senior Financial Accounting and an EMBA degree
from Sun Yat-sen University; has 27 years of work experience at large state-owned
63

enterprises in China and abroad and more than 15 years of work experience as the
Secretary of the Board of Directors, Chief Financial Officer and Deputy General
Manager of large Chinese state-owned enterprises, has been in charge of
enterprise listing, capital operation, investment, financing and financial
management for a long time. Has a wealth of experience in capital operation and
financial management. Has the qualifications for Secretary of the Board of
Directors or Independent Director of listed companies.
He Honglian: Director of Waltonchain Investment Division, Certified Public
Accountant, received an MBA degree from Xiamen University. Previously served as
the Investment Center Manager of Meiya Pico, currently leads the Waltonchain
investment team to research and plan investment in the field of Internet of Things
and integrated circuits.

5.6

Consultant Team
I Jong Gil: representative of BSM, Chairman of the Korea Carbon Convergence

Committee and Active Carbon Committee.
Go Sang Tae: Deputy Director of Editorial Board of Korea Electronic News
Agency, Director of the New Media and New Industry Bureau of KI news.
Liu Xiaowei: Professor of Harbin Institute of Technology, academic advisor of
doctoral students, chief expert of the Program 973. Member of the expert group
on assembly of micro- and nanotechnology devices, member of the expert group
on assembly of a wide range of military electronic components, Deputy Director of
the Force Sensing Specialized Committee of the Sensing Technology Division of the
Chinese Institute of Electronics, Deputy Secretary-General of Chinese Northeast
Micro-Electro-Mechanical System Technology Consortium, editorial board member
of the book titled “Sensor Technology”, Heilongjiang Province CPPCC member.

64

Su Yan: Professor of Nanjing University of Science and Technology, academic
advisor of doctoral students, Vice President of the Naval Instrument and Control
Academic Board under the Chinese Society of Naval Architects and Marine
Engineers, Vice Chairman of the China Instrument and Control Society Naval
Instrument and Control Branch, Executive Director of the MEMS & NEMS Society of
China, CIS, Executive director of Jiangsu Institute of Instrumentation, expert on
components.
Zhang Yan: Doctor of Engineering, Professor, academic advisor of doctoral
students. Currently serves as Associate Dean of Harbin Institute of Technology
(Shenzhen) School of Electronics. Expert in the areas of digital integrated circuit
design and embedded systems.
Ma Pingping: received a Master of Economics from Xiamen University, serves
as general manager at Septwolves Venture Capital Limited.
Peng Xiande: Senior Lawyer, Guangdong Wenpin Law Firm partner, expert in
company law, investment and financing legal affairs with more than twenty years
of judicial practical experience.
Bo Ke: graduated from Henan University of Economics and Law, Senior Lawyer
of Guangdong Ruiting Law Firm, China registered lawyer, member of the All China
Lawyers Association, member of Shenzhen Lawyers Association, has more than 20
years of experience in legal services.
Xiao Guangjian: Senior Accountant, Tax Accountant, Senior Economist,
Secretary-General of Shenzhen Sanming Chamber of Commerce, Shenzhen Lianjie
Accounting Firm partner, Senior Financial Expert, has more than ten years of
experience in financial consultancy of listed companies.
Li Xiong: founder of the FINANCIAL CHAIN (www.chainfor.com), Internet
finance serial entrepreneur, a veteran in blockchain industry. Has 7 years of
65

product design, marketing operations, brand public relations and team
management experience. Embarked on entrepreneurship in blockchain industry
since 2013 and founded sosobtc, ICO365, icolive blockchain service platforms. Has
a sophisticated understanding of blockchain. Currently, focuses on research of
blockchain and cryptocurrency ecosystems and their application.

66

Part 6 References
1. A. Tapscott, D. Tapscott, How blockchain is changing finance, Harvard Business
Review, 2017.
2. T. Stein, Supply chain with blockchain — showcase RFID, Faizod, 2017
3. S. Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system, Bitcoin.org, 2009.
4. R. Hackett, The financial tech revolution will be tokenized, Fortune, 2017.
5. Swedberg, Blockchain secures document authenticity with smartrac’s dLoc
solution, RFID Journal, 2016.
6. Bayer, S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta, Improving the efficiency and reliability of
digital time-stamping, Sequences II: Methods in Communication, Security and
Computer Science, 1993.
7. Legay, M. Bozga, Formal modeling and analysis of timed systems, Springer
International Publishing AG, 2014.
8. Back, Hashcash — a denial of service counter-measure, Hashcash.org, 2002.
9. Dickson, Blockchain has the potential to revolutionize the supply chain, Aol
Tech, 2016.
10. KCDSA Task Force Team, The Korean certificate-based digital signature
algorithm, IEEE Standard Specifications for Public-Key Cryptography, 1998.
11. J. Donaldson, Mojix brings transformational RFID, big data analytics and
blockchain technology to NRF Retail’s Big Show, Mojix.com, 2017.
12. R. T. Clemen, Incentive contracts and strictly proper scoring rules. Test, 2002.

67

13. J.-Y. Jaffray, E. Karni, Elicitation of subjective probabilities when the initial
endowment is unobservable, Journal of Risk and Uncertainty, 1999.
14. Blockchain Luxembourg S.A., https://blockchain.info.
15. J. Gong, Blockchain society — decoding global blockchain application and
investment cases, CITIC Press Group, 2016.
16. Johnston et al., The general theory of decentralized applications, Dapps, 2015.
17. P. Sztorc, Peer-to-peer oracle system and prediction marketplace, 2015.
18. R. Hanson, Logarithmic market scoring rules for modular combinatorial
information aggregation, Journal of Prediction Markets, 2002.
19. Pan Wei Di, analysis of the status quo and future of virtual currency
development in China, Enterprise Herald newspaper, 2016.
20. Li Wei, Studies on Virtual Currency Legal Issues, Foreign Economic and Trade
University Doctoral Dissertation, 2016.

68

