WebDollar
Cryptocurrency Native to the World Wide Web

Whitepaper Draft 0.6
23.03.2019

Alexandru Ionuț Budişteanu

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

Abstract WebDollar (WEBD) is a Browser-based Peer-to-Peer cryptocurrency that aims
to signiﬁcantly increase the worldwide adoption of decentralized currencies. WebDollar
oﬀers the possibility to send and receive payments online on any Browser, directly from
one party to another, without going through a ﬁnancial institution, while the
conﬁrmations of these transactions are secure on the blockchain without passing them
through potential vulnerable channels like a Web Server or RPC intermediary as in BTC.
Cryptocurrencies have been very technical, requiring the installation of speciﬁc
terminal applications for running nodes and mining, downloading the entire
blockchain before starting to mine, and dedicated wallet software. To solve the
worldwide adoption challenge, WebDollar focuses on three core advantages:
1. Simplicity - oﬀering an intuitive and non-technical user experience, addressing
more than just IT-savvy crypto-enthusiasts, but also the common citizens.
2. Lightness - WebDollar introduces a trustless light node of the blockchain for
mining and verifying transactions without requiring to download the entire
blockchain history from Genesis, but only the hardest proofs and blocks that
distinguish attackers to honest nodes (miners) who keep the correct blockchain.
This breakthrough light version of the Blockchain is called Non-Interactive
Proofs of Proofs of Work (NiPoPoW) and was proposed by some researchers. [2]
3. Ease of integration with the Web - Integrating electronic crypto payments
represent a diﬃcult challenge for web developers because at the moment Web
Applications have to communicate with an internet protocol that is not native
to the browser or the HTTP layer. Most web and mobile apps validate
transactions by communicating with an intermediary Web Server (REST) that
runs a full node and communicates blockchain results through JSON RPC or
WebSockets opening the apps to new security risks. A Browser (WEB)
Peer-to-Peer solution would simplify the usage of the entire cryptocurrency
system because everything (Wallets, Blockchain, Transactions, Payments, API)
are handled in Javascript trustless running in every browser, node.js, and OS. As
such, every browser in the world can i) Run and connect as a Light node to the
entire WebDollar blockchain network trustless in seconds ii) Mine instantly iii)
Open Referral Pools iv) Store Digital Wallets in browser iv) Send and conﬁrm
payments.

2

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

1. A brief history of money and cryptocurrencies: evolution, devolution, and
revolution
Money responds primarily to the need for indirect exchange. This need is natural and
emerges immediately as an economy grows past the most basic levels. As soon as the nexus
of exchanges becomes greater than a few families and types of goods exchanged, the
problems of non-coincidence of wants and indivisibility of directly exchanged goods become
signiﬁcant.
When two individuals want to exchange two goods and have one of the aforementioned
problems, a third good is the solution. The exchange becomes a two-step process instead of a
one-step process. First, you buy an intermediary good with the good you want to sell. Then
you exchange some of the intermediary good (or medium of exchange) for the good you
want to buy, now or later.
Conceptually and historically, we can see and understand how society selected money out
of the goods it already produced. A medium of exchange that is selected for its marketability
out of other means of exchange and becomes accepted in virtually all exchanges and for all
goods can be ﬁnally called money. What money can oﬀer that less adopted means of
exchange cannot is social calculability. This is a detail of tremendous importance. When
there is a constellation of prices obtained in de facto exchanges intermediated by a type of
money, it is possible for people to start thinking entrepreneurially in terms of that money
and the possibilities for complex businesses are open.
This generalized adoption process is accompanied by a gradual increase in the purchasing
power of money because more and more people demand it for its monetary services until
virtually everybody has some of it on stock. [9] There was a long process of selection out of
which the precious metals gold and silver were singled out for their qualities of being easily
standardized, checked for authenticity, divisible, fungible, relatively scarce – sand has all the
other qualities – and, not to take humans for less the emotional beings that they are, for their
sound and esthetics – precious metals are traditionally called sound money for this reason.
Commodity money was the money of the free market. Precious metals were extracted and
minted by merchants or local rulers in their eﬀort to establish their brands and gain wider
circulation in a competitive process. Later, it was merchants and bankers that started issuing
money substitutes such as deposit certiﬁcates and banknotes to help with long distance
payments, clearing, safekeeping, and divisibility.
Parallel to this evolution there was a devolution of money. The state has always hijacked,
usurped and destroyed for its own interest what the market produced in the interest of
people. It happened with money, too. The king’s monopoly on minting, the royal branding
on coins, debasement, legal tender, exchange rate controls, fractional reserve banking,
ﬁduciary substitutes and ﬁnally ﬁat money without any backing are all poisoned fruits of
this devolution.
The juxtaposition of the dire state of money and banking, on the one hand, and the
technological advancements of the internet, on the other hand, prompted a revolutionary
3

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

step. The breakthrough came in 2008, when an anonymous programmer, known as Satoshi
Nakamoto, proposed a new peer-to-peer Proof-of-Work blockchain coin [0]. The beneﬁts
include decentralization, anonymity, ﬁnite supply and a matured blockchain infrastructure.
The solidity of the currency he created stood the test of time in the last 9 year, and despite a
few forks, a bad reputation (unjustly associated with the dark web), and seeing wild
ﬂuctuations in value, managed to not only thrive but also provide a model for a host of other
cryptocurrencies that have followed. As of January 2018, there are over 1400
cryptocurrencies valued at a total market capitalization of $740 billion USD.
Unlike conventional currency, cryptocurrencies are not controlled/regulated by an
authority, their value is determined entirely by the market. They are also impossible to
counterfeit thanks to the complicated mathematical models that encrypt transactions with
digital signatures, ensuring privacy and security for every user.
At the time of writing this White Paper, Bitcoin is at the historical value of 14,000 USD,
while the market capital value is reaching the psychological value of 250 billion USD.
However, if we put those numbers in the context of the world ﬁnancial system, they seem
meager – the entire Bitcoin capitalization is just 0.6% of the total ﬁnancial value in the world. If we
add all the other cryptocurrencies to the mix, we barely get to 2% of the world total. This is
partly due to the fact that cryptocurrencies are still a fringe and technical topic, requiring
specialized knowledge from their users.
The usage of cryptocurrencies is very limited and this excludes the older generations and
the less IT-literate people. WebDollar aims to tackle this issue by creating the world’s ﬁrst
browser cryptocurrency, where mining, wallets, transactions and other features are all
browser-based, providing a level of simplicity never achieved before.

2. WEB Blockchain
Bitcoin is not a web application, but a desktop software that you have to download and
install on your computer in order to run the Bitcoin Node connecting to the network.
Without the internet, Bitcoin can’t be used, but at the same time Bitcoin is NOT a
WWW/Web HTTP Application that runs in the Browser and it requires one to download the
entire blockchain history that is 219GB of raw data. All these disadvantages make Bitcoin
hard to be integrated into real-life Web applications for P2P electronic payments. Diﬃcult
development of applications for Bitcoin is stopping Bitcoin from reaching massive
adoption by the general public. Bitcoin and all the Altcoins to-date are still very hard to use
by the mainstream. In order to mine Bitcoin or check a transaction, you have to manually
install the Full Node software, which is a desktop software application; install it in your
terminal, conﬁgure your miner to a Pool (for mining) and then you need to download the
entire blockchain history (219GB in 2019, respectively 1TB for Ethereum).
WebDollar’s solution, to convert the desktop blockchain software into a Web Application,
together with a simple UI, devoid of technical terms, will make the blockchain accessible to
everybody. A research paper proposed by Aggelos, Andrew and Dionysis proposes a new
blockchain architecture called Non-Interactive Proofs of Proofs of Work [2] introducing
4

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

interlinks pointers making the WebDollar very light and in the same time trustless. Getting
rid of the necessity to download the full blockchain also allows for smaller, portable devices
to be used for mining, such as tablets and smartphones, whose vast processing power lays
mostly dormant.
Making the Blockchain available by a single click in the browser, on the World Wide Web,
will boost the mass-adoption by individuals and disrupt current Blockchain applications,
making them real-time, and easy to develop in the world.
WebDollar is a Web Blockchain Protocol allowing p2p transactions directly in browsers.
To include the WebDollar library on a web page, you just need to write one line:
<script src=”cdn://WebDollar-Protocol.js”>
Then, your website, with just a single click, can mine, have wallets, send payments, check
the balance etc. directly in the browser, trustless using the NiPoPoW light blockchain.
To include the WebDollar User Interface on a web page, you just need to write one line:
<script src=”cdn://WebDollar-User-Interface.js”>
Then, automatically your website will have the entire User Interface functionality to mine
webdollars, verify transactions, send transactions, buy-sell WEBD, etc.

The Web is scalable, while the Desktop is not. For mIRC, it took 10 years to get traction,
and eventually, it became obsolete because it was a desktop software that used the
internet,while Facebook Messenger is a web application that runs online and it is easy to use
anywhere, on any device.
5

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

2.1 WebDollar Protocol Solution
This WebDollar white paper proposes a mini-blockchain scheme combined with a light
trustless blockchain based on the Non-Interactive Proofs of Proofs of Work [2], and a
peer-to-peer scalable solution in Javascript that works directly in any web browser using
WebRTC and Websockets for signaling only.
2.2 Mining in WebDollar
1. Mining Pools – light nodes that use NiPoPoW proofs to verify proving the
authenticity of the last K blocks without relying on a trusted party. The Mining Pools
will have to synchronize to the main network every time they start operating their
mining pool.
2. Mining Nodes – receive tasks of new proposed serialized blocks to mine from the
Mining Pools ( Light Nodes). They just generate tons of nonces and apply the PoW
Hash Function to see if the blocks’ nonce respect the Mining Global Target
(Diﬃculty) H (block + nonce) > T arget . The Mining Pools manage and receive the
puzzles to generate the next blocks.
2.2 Peer-to-Peer directly in the Browser
For security reasons, even in the year 2018, the Websocket Server is not allowed to be
initiated to listen to incoming connections on any browser. Moreover, the ﬁrewalls and
routers make opening Listening Servers a diﬃcult challenge to solve namely most machines
will need to use either a STUN (Session Traversal of User Datagram Protocol) or TURN
(Traversal Using Relays around NAT) to connect each other directly in case one of them has
symmetric NAT. The only solution to listen to other connections in the browser is to use the
newly introduced Peer-to-peer WebRTC protocol alongside a simple Signaling Protocol and
a list of public STUN/TURN servers.
Peer-to-peer protocols for online payments couldn’t be done directly in the Browsers before
the introduction of WebRTC protocol ( 2011 ﬁrst introduction in Chrome) and their adoption
by other browsers (Internet Explorer 2015 and Safari 2017). In 2008, when Satoshi proposed
the Bitcoin Blockchain, it was totally impossible to enable Browsers to support Peer-to-Peer
communication and now Bitcoin cannot be used directly in the Browser.
2.4 Signaling Protocol facilitating WebRTC peer-to-peer protocol to work
WebRTC protocol to establish peer-to-peer connections between two browsers requires that
the two browsers connect ﬁrst to a common Signaling Server for acknowledging (signaling)
each other. WebDollar is proposing a new solution to this requirement by making a special
compiled Bundle called the “WebDollar-Protocol”, that runs also in the Node.js servers.
This bundle can open a Websocket server directly in the terminal facilitating the browsers to
connect each other.
After the signaling process is done and the WebRTC connection is established between the
two browsers, each Peer will also become a Signaling Server for the other Web Peers

6

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

connected to them in order to propagate. This will maximize the number of WebRTC
peer-to-peer connections in the browser.

WebDollar peer-to-peer protocol for using WebRTC in a Web Blockchain

2.4.1 Facilitating for Symmetric NAT
WebRTC Protocol has to use STUN and TURN ICE servers to allow browsers to generate
ICE candidates connecting the browsers each others because otherwise, it wouldn’t be
possible to identify themselves automatically.

Here is a list with some computers connected through socket.io (client:1), while the others
(webpeer2 and webpeer3) are using WebRTC. Some computers couldn’t connect because no
TURN ICE server was provided.
7

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

2.5 Javascript
The WebDollar was developed in Ecmascript 6. Using Babel and Browserify, we were able
to transpile the library into a pure Javascript bundle that can be executed by every modern
browser in the world. Javascript enables every Mobile, Tablet, Laptop, Computer in the
world to execute the Blockchain library directly in the Browser with just one click for
Wallets, Transactions, Balance Check, Blockchain (full node), Mining, and other applications.
2.6 Mini Blockchain for Accountant Tree
2.6.1 Blockchain
Bitcoin is using Blockchain as a data structure in order to keep track of all the transactions
done in the system involving valid bitcoin transfers [1]. The Blockchain introduces the
notation of Transaction, but it doesn’t have any speciﬁc notation for Balance. Merkle Trees
are built in order to keep a public ledger of all the previous transactions validating them and
allowing SPV (Simple Payment Veriﬁcation). The balance of an address is done by
processing the Merkle Trees to ﬁnd and validate previous transactions associated with that
speciﬁc address. In this way, the balance of an address is calculated every time when
requested in order to validate the funds of a speciﬁc transaction. To calculate the balance, the
blockchain system requires to have the entire blockchain downloaded and stored on the
drive and then for each transaction it needs to track down all the previous transactions
involving the requested address, and so on. This leads to having to access the same multiple
blocks many times and check multiple Merkle Trees in order to calculate a simple balance.

8

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

The above diagram shows the proposed solution of Satoshi’s Blockchain concept and a
sample Merkle Tree that contains the hashes of a couple of transactions.
The challenge that comes with Blockchain is that over time, the size of the blockchain
increases exponentially due to the fact that blockchains accept micropayments and each of
these transactions requires Merkle Trees which are also large in data. . For example, after just
8 years, Bitcoin blockchain size is 140GB of data, while Ethereum is 80 GB of data and they
are still growing.
Because we aim to run the Blockchain in the Browser, only Full Nodes (but not Miners and
Light Nodes) will have to download the entire blockchain data, which will further promote
WebDollar as a viable solution for mass adoption by the general public.
2.6.2 Mini blockchain Scheme
Mini blockchain Scheme [1] is a diﬀerent implementation of a blockchain solution that
“eliminates” the concept of unspent output transactions and introduces a new concept of
balance. The mini blockchain scheme introduces a new data structure called an Accountant
Tree in order to keep track of balances of all non-zero addresses.
The accountant tree is just a Radix (Patricia) Tree of storing the balances for all non-zero
addresses. So, instead of storing the transactions and a Merkle Tree of transactions, the mini
blockchain scheme stores a Radix (Patricia) Tree for the balances of all non-zero addresses.
Radix (Patricia) Trees must be combined with a Merkle Tree to allow SPV (Simple Payment
Veriﬁcation) for ultra-light nodes, that will only download the NiPoPoW proofs and just a
logarithmic number of hashes in order to validate a balance or to validate a smart contract.
Ethereum is the most known blockchain technology that uses Radix (Patricia) Merkle Trees.

9

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

The blocks in the mini blockchain scheme contains header hashes for validations (like in the
normal blockchain scheme) and instead of transactions, the blocks contain the changes that
must be done to the Accountant Tree and the new hashes.

Pruning can also be done after a long period of time when the mini-blockchain ensures
safety to prune very old blocks, but keeping a long not-pruned blockchain. By pruning the
very old blocks, this will mean that some transactions can be discarded maximizing a little
bit the anonymity of the addresses.

10

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

2.7 Non Interactive Proofs of Proof of Work
Non Interactive Proofs of Proof of Work is proposed by Aggelos Kiayias, Andrew Miller,
and Dionysis Zindros [2].
WebDollar has two types of nodes:
1. Full Nodes (trustless nodes) - have a complete snapshot of the blockchain (or the last
M blocks from the blockchain, where ΔT M could be 1 year or 2 years), and they are
required to be used in the WebRTC signaling process to connect two browsers each
others. We term the name of Provers to the full-nodes that are able to generate
NiPoPoW Proofs used by the light nodes.
2. Light Nodes (trustless nodes) - receive the NiPoPoW Proofs from multiple Provers
and identify the honest nodes from attackers by verifying the proofs and determine
the most diﬃcult and valid proofs given from all nodes. Light Nodes are known also
as Veriﬁers.
The ﬁrst notion introduced in NiPoPoW by [2] is that they extends the Satoshi’s [0] Blocks
with a new data structure called interlinks, a vector containing pointers to multiple
previous blocks, including the hash of the previous block. The interlink data structure
contains pointers to more blocks than just the previous block [2]. So, every block instead of
pointing only to the previous block, the NiPoPoW interlinks vector points to some previous
blocks with the property that an algorithm presented in [2] can trace back to the Genesis
Block. Given two hash functions H and G modelled as random oracles, the hash known also
as id of a block is deﬁned as hash(Block) = H(nonce, G( Block data , interlink)) . In WebDollar,
H and G are to be proposed Argon2d as ASIC resistant and GPU not very friendly.
Valid blocks satisfy the proof-of-work condition: hash(Block) ≤ T, where T is the global
mining target from the main network. Some blocks will achieve a lower id. If
hash(Block) ≤

T
2µ

we say that the block is of level µ . All blocks are level 0 (Genesis). Blocks

with level µ are called µ-superblocks. µ-superblocks for µ > 0 are also (µ − 1)-superblocks.
By convention, for Gen we set hash = 0 and µ = ∞ .

Graphical depiction of Interlink µ levels data structure stored in each block [13]
11

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

To describe the security properties of the blockchains that are equipped with the newly
introduced interlink data structure, a few new concept of chain quality, inspired by the
deﬁnition of this property called superchain quality were introduced.
(Locally good superchain). A superchain C ′ of level µ with underlying chain C is said to be
µ-locally-good with respect to security parameter δ is deﬁned as follows:
local − g oodδ (C ′ , C, µ), if ∣C ′ ∣ > (1 − δ) 2−µ ∣C∣ , where ∣C∣ = length of C
(Superchain super quality). The (δ, m) super quality property of a chain C pertaining to
level µ with security parameters δ ∈ R and m ∈ N states that for all m′ ≥ m , it holds the
following property. That is, all suﬃciently large suﬃxes are locally good.
local − g oodδ (C↑µ [−m′ : ], C↑µ [−m′ :] ↓ , µ) , where,
C ↑µ is upchain deﬁned as {B ∈ C ∣ level(B) ≥ µ}
C ’↓C is downchain deﬁned as C [ C ′ [0] : C ′ [−1] ]
(Multilevel quality). A µ-superchain C’ is said to have multilevel quality, written
multi − g oodδ,k1 (C, C ′ , µ) with respect to an underlying chain C = C’↓ with security
parameters k 1 , δ if for all µ’ < µ it holds that for any C * ⊆ C , if ∣C * ↑µ′ ∣ ≥ k 1 , then
∣C ∗ ↑µ ∣ ≥ (1 − δ) 2µ−µ′ ∣C ∗ ↑µ′ ∣ . In case it will not have the last property, then multilevel
quality will not exist.
(Good superchain). A µ-superchain C’ is said to be good, written goodδ,k1 (C, C ′ , µ) , with
respect to an underlying chain C = C ′↓ if it has both super quality and multilevel quality
with parameters (δ, m) .
NiPoPoW Veriﬁed algorithm for Light Nodes
Light Node = Veriﬁer ; Full Node = Prover
1. The Veriﬁer starts to connect to the main network made of Provers and Attackers
noted as P via Sockets and WebRTC
2. Thee Veriﬁer starts to ask the Provers or other Light Nodes for the NiPoPoW proofs
(π, χ) , where π is the proof and χ last k blocks
3. The Veriﬁer collects the NiPoPoW proofs (π, χ) ∈ P and starts validating the Proofs
︿

from the P set by checking v alidChain(π χ) ∧ ∣χ∣ = k ∧ π ≥m π and it will choose the
︿ ︿

best (most diﬃcult) proof (π , χ) from the set (π, χ) ∈ P by using a deﬁned operator
≥m that compares two diﬀerent proofs πA and π B
12

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar
︿ ︿

4. After validation, in case there is a fork after last proven block (π, χ) , the Light Node
︿

needs to ask to receive the blocks after χ by validating these new blocks’ interlinks.
In case the fork is in the past and it is short, the Veriﬁer can check the fork if it is right
︿

not, but in case the fork is longer than χ , the Veriﬁer will require another NiPoPoW
proof for that fork.
πA

≥m π B operator compares two proofs and returns which underlying blockchain is longer

from P roverA or from P roverB
πA ≥m π B = best − arg m (πA , LCA(πA , π B ) ) ≥ best − arg m (πB , LCA(πA , π B )) , where
LCA(πA , π B ) = (πA ∩ πB )[−1]
best − arg m (π, b) = maxµ∈M {2µ · ∣ π↑µ {b : } ∣ } , where
M = {µ : ∣π↑µ {b : }∣ ≥ m} ∪ {0}
NiPoPoW Prover algorithm for Full Nodes
1. The Prover connects to a Light Node that may require a NiPoPoW proof (π, χ) and in
case it already has the (π, χ) proof, it will just send it to the Light Node. In case it
doesn’t have (π, χ) already calculated, it will just generate the (π, χ) by the following
steps.
2. It takes a µ-superchain and the last m blocks by ﬁlling a range of blocks with blocks
from the superchain of level µ−1 below that respects the goodδ,m property, namely
M ultilevel quality and S uperchain super quality All the µ-superblocks which are within
this m blocks range will also be (µ − 1)-superblocks and so we do not want to keep
them in the proof twice

13

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

2.6.3 WebDollar Transaction
The initial WebDollar transactions will enable the moving of funds from one address to an
unlimited number of output addresses. The input of a WebDollar Transaction is just one
address, while the output can be multiple output addresses. The transaction must be signed
using an elliptic curve algorithm Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA).
WebDollar test net used the secp256k1 elliptic curve used in the 2008 original Bitcoin
implementation y 2 = x3 + 7
Other remarkable ECDSA includes Schnorr signatures that agrees on a group G of prime
order q , with generator of g , in which the discrete logarithm problem is assumed to be hard
to crack on current computers (but not on quantum computers). A Schnorr signature is a
hash function H : {0, 1} * → Z q

2.7 Hybrid Mining
WebDollar is the ﬁrst browser hybrid mining with a special mining design which is
composed with 2 diﬀerent mining algorithms. WebDollar’s hybrid algorithm includes
33.(3)% Proof-of-Work & 66.(6)% Proof-of-Stake which is increasing the security of the
network, especially to avoid 50%+1 attacks. Using two diﬀerent diﬃculty targets, one for
14

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

PoS and one for PoW, this algorithm is decreasing the exposing risk for an 50%+1 PoW
attack. The attacker cannot make a 50%+1 using only PoW power, even he has 100% of the
PoW power of the network, he will also need 33.(3)% of the circulation supply in order to
have a chance to make a 50%+1 attack, and an attack where you’re a big holder doesn’t have
any logic.

In order to achieve consensus in the network WebDollar is using the cainhash, which
represents the identity of the main chain to avoid the network splitting into forks
betweenPoS rounds. One round contains 10 blocks. Each round has only one diﬃculty target
for PoS respectively PoW. Our hybrid mining is composed with repetitive rounds cycles of 1
PoW round and 2 PoS rounds. One full cycle has 3 rounds (30 blocks).

A. Proof-of-Work Mining ASIC resistant and GPU unfriendly
WebDollar is designed to be a Proof-of-Work blockchain like Bitcoin at least at the
beginning. The only diﬀerence is that we propose the mining to be ASIC and GPU resistant,
which will lead towards mass-adoption by users, not promote a hardware-intensive
backbone. We want to avoid the clustering of large mining farms because this will make the
network and mining more centralized and proﬁtable only to a few who invest large sums in
dedicated computers. Using ASIC resistant hashing, we want to have more and more people
involved in the mining process, creating a social layer on the mining process. We have
analyzed a couple of ASIC resistant hash functions including Scrypt, Argon2 (Argon2d) and
Cuckoo Cycle. At the moment, we propose an Argon2d function for Hashing, because in
2017, Argon2d is probably the best ASIC resistant hash function, but it is a little bit GPU
friendly for the new video cards. The WebDollar community should also consider adopting
other ASIC resistant hash functions in the near future for avoiding ASIC or dedicated
mining computers (quantum, etc.) including CryptoNight that is only CPU friendly because
of the high usage of the CPU 2mb cache. To avoid mining farms made by GPU, WebDollar
community should adapt CryptoNight or other CPU cache intensive for the PoW Hash
Function.
In PoW, each Block contains a Transactions Merkle Tree, respectively, an Account
Tree/Radix (Patricia) Tree for mini blockchain. The blocks are hashed through a Hashing
function in order to validate it and the previous blocks, making the network choose only the
largest blockchain fork of the network.
A “hash” is an injective and non-invertible function h (x) = y . Usually x = (M , S ) where
M is the message we want to hash, and S is a salt ( a random string ). A hash has a few more
properties: i) Determinism ii) Deﬁned range iii) Continuity iv) collision resistance
(injectivity) v) Compression

15

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

A hash function h(x) = y to be ASIC resistant must be memory intensive, where a memory
array B [] must be ﬁlled with a compression function G and indexing functions φi() :

B [0] = H( M , S );
B [i] = G (B[φ1(i)], B[φ2(i)], · · · , B[φk(i)]) i = 1, t ;
Argon2 [3] is based on a internal permutation compression function G with two inputs of
1024-byte, a 1024-byte output and an internal a B lake2b hash function H . For avoiding
parallelism, the function G is iterated m times. To be memory intensive, at the step i a block
with index φ(i) < i is taken from the memory array B [] and φ(i) is either determined by the
previous block in Argon2d.
The generalization of Argon2 ( t > 1 ) is described in [3], where it clearly shows the memory
intensive usage:

B t [i][0] = G(B t−1 [i][ q − 1], B[ i′ ][ j ′ ]) ⊕ B t−1 [i][0];
B t [i][j] = G(B t [i][ j − 1], B[ i′ ][ j ′ ]) ⊕ B t−1 [i][j].
where, ⊕ is X OR and block B[ i′ ][ j ′] may be either

B t [ i′ ][ j ′ ] for j ′ < j or
B t−1 [ i′][ j ′ ] for j > j ′

Once the T iterations have been done over the entire memory array B [] , it is necessary to
compute the ﬁnal block B f inal by XOR-ing the last columns

B f inal = B T [0][q − 1] ⊕ B T [1][q − 1] ⊕ · · · ⊕ B T [p − 1][q − 1]
It is obvious that Argon2 is memory intensive to calculate B f inal in order to get the output
of the hash function. This property of being memory intensive, at the moment in 2017 put
great challenges for semiconductor manufacturers to create fast and optimized
Application-Speciﬁc Integrated Circuits and to scale that memory on every device. By using
Argon2d or in the future other memory intensive hash functions, WebDollar would be
mined by the computers of individuals and not by mining farms. Satoshi had this idea of “1
cpu 1 vote”. ASICs and GPUs unbalance the mining, and this forces individuals to acquire
dedicated hardware for mining. This unbalance will push into a centralized mining by only
controlled more and more by the people who has accept to acquire fast the best ASICs and
best GPUs on the market.

16

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

B. Proof-of-Stake Mining instant reward

SHA256(prevhash + address + timestamp) <= 2^256 * balance /
diff
WebDollar Proof-of-Stake algorithm is using the above formula. Each wallet involved in
staking has a number of chances directly proportionally with the balance of the wallet
divided to all others stakes. The diﬃculty target for Proof-of-Stake is adjusting every PoS
round (10 blocks). Using chainHash WebDollar is avoiding to create unwanted forks in the
network. By this way chainHash is keeping all nodes from the network aware of the main
Blockchain PoS rounds.
2.8 Mining Diﬃculty
WebDollar is a blockchain Proof-of-Work decentralized solution and we propose this
Mining Diﬃculty inspired from the Bitcoin. The diﬃculty of a block is noted as Λ , while
timestamp of a block is noted as Γ
The Bitcoin Diﬃculty is adjusted every 2016 blocks ( 2 · 7 · 24 · 60 min · 1 / block time , where
block time is 10 min ). The diﬃculty can described as the following: if the ΔT to get 2016 new
blocks was less than 2 weeks ⇒ Diﬃculty will be increased, otherwise ⇒ Diﬃculty will be
reduced. The formula that recalculates the diﬃculty every 2016 blocks is based on algorithm
that uses

a modiﬁed Taylor series for the logarithm. [4]. The disadvantage of Bitcoin’s

diﬃculty is that in case a large mining pool will just turn oﬀ their mining devices, the
diﬃculty will be hard in the system for the next 2016 blocks ( 2 weeks), and the
decentralized system will have a long pending list of transactions.
2.8.1 WebDollar Mining Diﬃculty

The ﬁrst proposed WebDollar Proof of Work mining Diﬃculty is based on the Ethereum
Homestead diﬃculty that adjust the next Target every block, (namely 15 seconds), but
eliminating the “bomb” equation [6]

ΛT = ΛT −1 +

ΛT −1
2048

· max( 1 −

ΓT −ΓT −1
10

, 99)

where the division is integer division - the fractional part (remainder) is discarded, ΔT = 1,
Λ is adjusted every block, and block time is 15 seconds.
2.9 Transactions Per Second
Centralized Systems for the next years will still outnumber the decentralized systems.
Ripple for instance, it is not a Blockchain technology and it is not decentralized. The Bitcoin’s

17

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

network theoretical maximum capacity with the 1MB block size limit sits between 3.3 to 7
transactions per second (tps)[13].
Bitcoin: 10 min/block, 1 MB block size => 3.3 tps (low) or 7 tps (high)
WebDollar: 40sec/block, 1 MB block size => 132 tps (low) or 280 tps (high)
Future settings in the near future:
Block every 5 seconds, 1 MB block size => 396 tps (low) or 840 tps (high)
Block every 5 seconds, 8 MB block size => 3168 tps (low) or 6720 tps ( high)
These are pure estimates based on the current Bitcoin scalability numbers.
By lowering the block time generator, it will create longer blockchain forks in the world. This
can be achieved over time, when the internet latency will lower.
By increasing the block size, it will make light nodes to download more data to validate the
NiPoPoW (π, χ) proof. This can be achieved over time, when the internet latency will lower.
Lightning Network and oﬀ-chain transactions are also taken in consideration to increase the
number of transactions per second.
2.10 Monetary Supply
The medium-of-exchange function is the primary function of money. All others are
secondary, such as store of value and unit of account. [10] For this primary function to be
fulﬁlled, any quantity of money is suﬃcient. The pricing of money (establishment on the
market of its purchasing power, or the formation of the prices for virtually all goods) is
dependent on its supply and demand.
In the case of goods selected as means of exchange, the non-monetary use is less and less
important than the monetary use. The monetary use involves transfers and preservation of
substance, whereas in the case of non-monetary uses consumption involves substantive loss
(from an economic point of view). Thus, the physical destruction of money through usage is
insigniﬁcant when compared with other goods and, even in the case of commodity money,
an increasing supply of it is not necessary. This is another reason why precious metals,
whose supply is naturally diﬃcult to boost, were considered suitable as money.
When discussing the monetary function, economists try to understand the laws that apply
to monetary uses and ignore the non-monetary uses. Economists have argued since David
Hume that any quantity of money is always optimal. Increasing the quantity of money does
not increase the services rendered by money. This observation was only qualiﬁed by the fact
that the non-monetary uses of money justiﬁed an increasing supply of it.

18

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

Cryptocurrencies are closer to being purely money in this sense, because their intangibility
makes them less suited for non-monetary uses. The age-old observation about the optimality
of any quantity of money is fulﬁlled even better in their case.
WebDollar follows Bitcoin in adopting this model of a ﬁxed supply with gradual release.
Cryptocurrencies are rather like commodity money to the extent that their supply is not
discretionary. In the case of precious metals, production has to compete with all other uses
that its valuable factors of production can service. It is in this way impersonal.
In the case of cryptocurrency, this impersonal character is maximized with a ﬁxed supply.
Any inﬂationary model is a suboptimal solution, a compromise from scientiﬁc rigor, because
it includes a particular judgement about how the new coins should dilute the value of old
coins. A cryptocurrency that allows for any degree of discretion in the future is further
compromised from the start. Having a ﬁxed supply and a continually changing demand
established by the market solves a problem of uncertainty and makes the price adjustment
model simpler.
Bitcoin controlled supply is based solely on a scarcity model. The rate of block creation is
adjusted every 2016 blocks to aim for a constant 2 week adjustment period. The number of
bitcoins generated per block is set to decrease geometrically, with a 50% reduction every
210,000 blocks, or approximately 4 years.

The result is that the number of bitcoins in

existence is not expected to exceed 21 million. The block reward Ω adjustment can be
approximately modelled by the following equation: [5]
25

inf

∑ Ω (Blockheight ) =

height=0

∑ 21·

i=0

50.10 8
2i

104

The decreasing-generation algorithm was chosen because it approximates the rate at which
commodities like gold are mined in the real world. This decreasing-supply algorithm
increases the value of the coin based on scarcity.
2.10.1 Emission scheme
Total supply: 42,000,000,000 (42 Billion) WEBD
Named subunit: WebCent = 0.01 WEBD
Smallest subunit: 0.0001 WEBD
The coins will be issued through mining over a 100 year time span, with 9.9% (4.1568 Billion)
reserved for WebDollar Genesis.

19

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar
Emission charts:

20

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

Genesis split:
The WEBD reserved from the Genesis will be used for the further development of the
technology & ecosystem and to reward the development work done so far. They will be
distributed as follows, and released gradually according to the funding needs of the project.

Also, all the proﬁts from mining with Genesys will be used for promoting WebDollar in form
of bounty campaigns and rewards for contributors.
2.10.2 Deﬂation and hoarding: is there a reason to worry?
People erroneously refer to the model above as a deﬂationary model. Here, we need to
clarify that there are two uses of the words deﬂation or inﬂation:
●

inﬂation or deﬂation of money supply, or

●

inﬂation or deﬂation of prices

The classical and relevant use in our case is the ﬁrst. So, technically speaking, the
WebDollar money supply is ﬁxed. If less people would demand it then its purchasing power
would be lower (prices expressed in WEBD would increase), so it becomes price inﬂationary
– although early massive adoption would have price deﬂationary eﬀects.
Markets can deal both with a general high level in prices and with a general low one. Price
deﬂation does not lead to depression. [12] Hoarding is just an emotionally charged name for
demand for money and there is no problem with it from an economic point of view.
Intensive demand for money during the ﬁrst phases of a worldwide adoption process is to
be expected and welcomed, not countered.
One particularity of any cryptocurrency is that it is inﬁnitely divisible, because it is
intangible. Gold could be minted in small coins only to a point beyond which it became
impractical to use. The reason silver was adopted at times instead of or along gold to fulﬁll
the money role was its increased abundance and capability to serve in small everyday
payments, despite its other disadvantages to gold (e.g., tarnishing). Such coexistence of
moneys is impractical because it introduces the need to keep account of the exchange rate
between to two metallic moneys. One major blight of monetary history was the inability or
malevolence of authorities that enacted a ﬁxed exchange rate between the two, also known
as bimetallism. This ﬁxed bimetallism often engendered Gresham eﬀects – overvalued
money replacing undervalued money on the market – to the great losses of market actors.
21

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

This ﬂexible exchange rate between two moneys is not to be confused with the deﬁnitions
of subdivisions in the case of one money that are always ﬁxed, as with the relation between
one ounce of gold and half an ounce, or 100 grams and 1 gram. Likewise, banknotes and
deposits emerged as substitutes for metallic money, to solve payment, security, divisibility
and portability problems. In the case of honest issuers, the issue was perfectly covered in
money reserves and, again, there was a ﬁxed deﬁnition of the substitute in terms of metallic
reserves, not a variable price.
The arrival of the blockchain solves portability, security, and payment, to diﬀerent degrees
with diﬀerent cryptocurrencies. Moreover – and the importance of this fact cannot be
overemphasized – cryptocurrencies do not have the divisibility problem. As we can see in
the case of Bitcoin, technically it is possible to divide one bitcoin into 100 million satoshis,
with intermediary bitcents, milibits and microbits.
While not technical, the divisibility problem is rather psychological. In expectation of a
very steep worldwide adoption curve, on a scale several orders higher than Bitcoin, we
decided to assign to our one-time creation of the ﬁxed WebDollar supply a corresponding
granularity.
A technical problem that Bitcoin has not solved satisfactorily and WebDollar is designed to
solve is the portability problem. The relatively low number of transactions is not caused by
hoarding, but by the technical speciﬁcations of Bitcoin. We consider that this is the reason
why we see such low transaction numbers and high fees for cryptocurrencies from the
Bitcoin family.
2.11 Security concerns
WebDollar implementation is using the mini-blockchain scheme for storing the Accountant
Tree instead of using Transactions Merkle Trees. The security concerns for using the
mini-blockchain are very similar to Satoshi’s Proof-of-Work Blockchain solution, and it has
been proven to be safe in Ethereum.
WebDollar Full nodes are inheriting all the security advantages and properties from the
blockchain PoW solution proposed by Satoshi Nakamoto in [0].
WebDollar Light nodes that download only the Non-Interactive proofs will inherit all the
properties and security concerns from the NiPoPoW - Non Interactive Proofs of Proof of
Work. [2] By having also a main net of Full Nodes (it is required to have node.js servers for
WebRTC signals), the attacker will also need to attack the honest Full Nodes from the main
network or at least to either to generate better NiPoPoW proofs or suspend (stop) the
connections with honest full nodes.
2.11.1 Security in Blockchain
2.11.1.1 Change History Attack

22

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

To hack the blockchain, the attacker needs to build a longer valid blockchain. To build a
longer valid blockchain, the attacker will need a considerable % of the main network
hashrate. Because of this, in case the attacker will fail to have >= 50% of global hashrate, the
attacker is in a competition with other honest miners and it will be more proﬁtable for him to
become a WebDollar miner instead of remaking the blockchain from scratch or even forking
the blockchain to keep the rewards for himself. So, to change an old history is almost
impossible for an attacker because it requires to own more than 50% of global hash rate and
sustain it in secret for a considerable time to make a successful fork that changes signiﬁcant
history. This way, an attacker could maximum create a fork altering only recent events and
keep the recent rewards from miners for himself.
In case the attacker doesn't posses a next generation technological advantage (quantum
computer), the attacker must have the network domination over a similar ~timespan as since
the genesis block began.
2.11.1.2 Double Spending Attack

Attackers that dominates a large percentage of the Main Network, can try to create some
double spending attacks in the Blockchain Technology by creating and mining their own
forks. Thankfully, Blockchain handles very well the double spending attacks making the
attacks probabilistic and not guaranteed. Actually, Satoshi Nakamoto did even some
computer simulations in 2008 [0] to calculate the probabilities of
some double spend attacks with diﬀerent percentages of the network
dominance. In, reality the probabilities of success for an attacker are
very small and, it would be way more proﬁtable for him to mine the
coin and not to try uncertain attacks that may lose money.
Nowadays, Bitcoin is more vulnerable to Double Spending than
never, especially because, the mining pools started to become more
centralized. The top 4 mining pools (see diagram) are all from China,
and they own over > 50% of the entire Bitcoin Global Hashrate. This
means, a collaborative attack from these four chinese Mining Pools
could have a signiﬁcant probability to launch a successful Double
Spending Attack, but not guaranteed.
WebDollar allows the creation of mining pools and referral link sharing to other people who
would like to mine in that mining pool. This way, WebDollar will decentralize the mining
pools, reducing considerably the risks for Double Spending Attacks. In addition to this,
mining with Genesys funds will considerably improve the security against 50%+1 attack,
considering Genesys amount in relation to the global distribution.
2.11.1.2.1 Double Spending Attack Solution #2
TBA

23

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

2.11.2 Quantum Threat
Absolutely, but absolutely all cryptographic functions used in Banks, Stock Exchange,
Internet Security communications and Bitcoin are threatened in 20 - 30 years by Quantum
supercomputers. Although, Quantum supercomputers are not a today's’ reality. D-Wave
quantum computer is an Adiabatic Annealing Machine that can solve probabilistic only
Adiabatic Equations are D-Wave is NOT a General Quantum Computer. So, Adiabatic
Annealing Machines like D-Wave can not be used to generate 2256 or even 2128 to crack either
the private keys or respectively the digital signatures by cracking the the elliptic curves
(ECDSA, Schnorr) used in Bitcoin or in WebDollar. The only solution, in that very unlucky
scenario in the next 20 years is to make the system more quantum resistance is that instead
of working with 32 bytes private & public keys, 20 bytes for public addresses, the protocol
should work with way longer private keys and addresses. But this is not ideally because of
high memory usage in blocks, moreover also at the moment there is no real threat from
adiabatic quantum computers, but also for the next years
2.11.2.1 Reducing Addresses’ private key collisions from 2^96 down to 0
The biggest issue in Bitcoin is that although the total numbers of private keys and public
keys are 2256 , the total number of unique addresses in the Bitcoin system is 2160 . This exploit
appears

because

in

Bitcoin,

early

Bitcoin

programmer

Hal

Finney

used

the

RIP EM D (SHA256 ( publicKey )) function reducing the length of the addresses by converting
the public address keys from 256 bits into 160 bits addresses. RIPEMD hash function initial
purpose was to be used as a backup in case the SHA256 could have been cracked. The
problem is that RIPEMD160 is generating Bitcoin addresses making a lot of collisions, that
all addresses have multiple private keys attached.
The birthday problem can be applied to estimate the probability of addresses collisions
given the size of the hash function. [7] The Probability Calculations in Hashing [8] can be
used tp to estimate the private key collisions in public addresses as follows:
To get all k = 2160 addresses, it is enough to use:
k * ln(k) + k = 160 * 2160 + 2160 = 161 * 2160 = 2167.32 keys.
If you use only 2160 private keys, you will have about 63% of all addresses [7]
Although 2160 seams a big number, by using the RIPEMD160, the system could be attacked
by an early and primitive Quantum computer that can generate 2167 quickly and could
crack all Bitcoin addresses. By extending the domain of the addresses from 2160 to 2256 , this
will give WebDollar an extra buﬀer time, in case in the near future (10, 20 years), a real

24

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

quantum computer will be invented and able to generate cracking the RIPEMD 2160
function, but it won’t be able to generate 2256 so quickly as cracking 2160 .
2.11.2.2 Increasing Quantum Resistance
By replacing the RIPEMD160 with SHA256, the security exploit for a future Quantum
computer still remains in. In order to solve this, we propose that WebDollar over the time
should use more Quantum resistant cryptographic functions. The advantage is that , the
community can create a hard fork replacing the obsolete ECDSA to use a Post Quantum
Cryptographic (PQC) functions or to use functions like Winternitz signatures (~1.4kb)
instead of using 256 bit Elliptic Curve Cryptography. At the moment, it is not very useful to
switch to Post Quantum Cryptographic functions, because all PQC functions use way much
memory to store the signatures than by using regular 256 bit Elliptic Curves.

3. The advantages of WebDollar
A. Simplicity
Our goal is to create and foster the mainstream adoption of cryptocurrencies. In order to
make that vision a reality, we need to address all kinds of users, not just the tech savvy, like
all the other cryptos do. For that, we aim to create the simplest possible user experience with
regard to using cryptocurrencies. And in our quest to achieve that, we’ve come to the basic
premise that while very few people know how to mine Bitcoin or install a software wallet,
just about everybody knows how to use a browser.
This is why WebDollar was designed from day one to be native to browsers and to the
World Wide Web. Written entirely in Javascript, WebDollar will be available directly in your
browser. That means:
●

No Installation

●

No Download

●

Mining directly in the landing page. Unlike any other crypto, you will be able to
mine and create value for yourself in less than 5 seconds, just with a simple click on a
button. Not only it is simple, but it is also fair. Our hash function of choice, Argon2d
at the moment does not create a preference for specialized hardware and you can run
it eﬃciently on any PC. Also, you can run as many threads as your hardware allows,
having full control on the impact on your processing power.

●

Access your wallet fast and safe in the browser. Without going through the hassle of
installing dedicated, complicated software and generating private keys that you have
to save somewhere else, you can generate a new wallet with a single click and easily
access from there, all the needed functionalities, while not compromising security:
o Send or receive payments
o See your transactions
o Check your balance

25

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

B. Versatility of mining hardware
In order to make it easy for everybody to use it, anytime and anywhere, we rely on a light
blockchain structure, involving the usage of mini-blockchain scheme and Non Interactive
Proofs of Proof of Work (NiPoPoW) consensus building. That greatly reduces the size of the
data that has to be downloaded into the browser in order to be able to become consensus
and start having a mining pool in the browser. In turn, this created the opportunity to mine
on any PC or laptop, regardless of disk space, and even to mine on mobile devices, tablets
and smartphones.
C. Rethink mining from the bottom
Mining is a slang term for the veriﬁcation of transactions. We have been using the term
“mining” for so long, that sometimes we forget it is a social act – one that creates trust in the
network without the need of a centralized authority.
The way the traditional POW cryptos were mined and the GPU/ASIC-intensive hash
functions were used, over time, tended to stimulate the centralization of the network around
large mining centers, where processing power and hardware have the ultimate say. This has
created an undesirable situation in which the network is dependent on the political climate
in certain countries. For example, for Bitcoin, 80% of the processing power of the network is
based in China, and over 50% of the network control lies in the hands of the 4 mining farms.
This goes against the vision that Satoshi Nakamoto himself had for the Bitcoin – to be a
decentralized coin. WebDollar wishes to return to that vision, by rethinking mining, from a
hardware intensive activity, to a social activity. We do that by using a hash function that does
not create a preference for specialized hardware (is ASIC-resistant) and by creating a referral
system.
Everybody can easily earn from referrals when inviting friends to create wealth together, by
mining in a pool. Through this social network approach, both the “regular miners” and the
pool owner gain value – for each reward obtained by people mining in one’s pool, the pool
owner gains a small percentage.
This encourages a strong stimulus to create, expand and maintain mining pools, thus
decentralizing the network. It will also help create the initial awareness for WebDollar, by
capitalizing on the early adopters’ social networks.
D. Create real value for content creators and monetize your social network
You can do this by embedding a script in your webpage that harnesses the visitors’
processing power to create value for you, in a consensual, transparent way. No more need to
insert ads into your website or beg for support on donation sites. You can directly capitalize
your traﬃc by easily inserting a script that creates value for you based on the frequency and
duration of visits on your site, with users permission.

26

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

E. Smart contracts
The primary purpose of WebDollar is to act as currency on the World Wide Web, to truly
become the currency of the internet. To expand on this view, WebDollar aims to support
smart contracts, which will allow decentralized organizations to create their own tokens,
taking full advantage of the technological upper hand of our protocol.
F. Anonymity
By using an optional, oﬀ chain solution, we will be able to provide to our users the beneﬁts
of full anonymity, far superior to the level of anonymity oﬀered by Bitcoin or Ethereum.
G. The speed of transaction conﬁrmation
In order to be a scalable digital currency, any crypto has to have a fast transaction
conﬁrmation time. To meet that objective, our protocol matches some of the fastest
transaction conﬁrmation speeds, generating a new block every 40 seconds.
H. Logarithmic fees policy
WebDollar aims to become a widespread and very easy method of transferring value on the
internet. In order to stimulate the ﬂow of WebDollars, we devised a logarithmic function for
calculating the fees. Starting from a very small value (we have implemented a Large
numbers function, allowing for up to 18 decimals), the value of the fee, expressed as a
percentage of the transaction value, becomes smaller and smaller as the value transaction
gets larger. The fees for monetary transactions will be considerably less than current digital
services, like Visa, PayPal or Western Union.
I.

Integrated end-user app for money transfer

By using our peer to peer exchange facility, you will be able to send money directly from
your account to someone on the other side of the globe, in their own account or crypto
wallet, via an automatic oﬀ-chain exchange service using WebDollars.

J.

Creating an inclusive, healthy and diverse ecosystem

With the funds reserved for Genesys, we aim to further expand the crypto-community by
hardening the real economy behind the WebDollar value - integration for payments in real
online services and creating a marketplace are two of the top actions to be undertaken in this
direction.
WebDollar will build on Satoshi’s original intention to create a truly decentralized coin, by
rethinking mining from a hardware intensive activity to a social one.
With WebDollar, your time IS money.

27

WebDollar.io

github/WebDollar

Contributors:
Special thanks to
1.
2.
3.
4.

Alexandru Panait for helping with tech concepts and in writing this White Paper.
Adrian Mihai Stratulat for helping in writing this White Paper.
Prof. Tudor Smirna for including chapters about History, Money, Deﬂation.
George Alexandru Sﬁca and Patrick McCullough for reviewing the White Paper.

References:
[0] Satoshi Nakamoto – Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System
[1] J.D. Bruce – The Mini-Blockchain Scheme
[2] Aggelos Kiayias, Andrew Miller, and Dionysis Zindros, Non-Interactive Proofs of
Proof-of-Work https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/963.pdf
[3] Alex Biryukov, Daniel Dinu, and Dmitry Khovratovich - Argon2: the memory-hard
function for password hashing and other applications
[4] Bitcoin Diﬃculty - https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Diﬃculty
[5] Bitcoin Controlled Supply - https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Controlled_supply
[6] Ethereum Improvement Proposal 2 “Homestead Hard-fork Changes”,
https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-2.md
[7] BitcoinTalk https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1895455.0 accessed on 20 Ian 2018
[8] Rosa Orellana, Dartmouth College, Probability Calculations in Hashing
https://math.dartmouth.edu/archive/m19w03/public_html/Section6-5.pdf
[9] Carl Menger, The Origin of Money, Committee for Monetary Research and Education,
Greenwich, Conn., 1984.
[10] Ludwig von Mises, Theory of Money and Credit, Liberty Fund, Indianapolis, 1981, pp.
46-49.
[12] Andrew Atkeson, Patrick J. Kehoe, Deﬂation and Depression: Is There an Empirical
Link?, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, Research Department Staﬀ Re p or t 331,
January 2004.
[13] Aggelos Kiayias, Nikolaos Lamprou, and Aikaterini-Panagiota Stouka, Proofs of Proofs
of Work with Sublinear Complexity,
[14] Bitcoin Scalability Problem https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitcoin_scalability_problem

28

