Nework
Incentive platform for connecting human skills
based on chain block technology

White Paper Version 5.0
14 Aug. 2018

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

Colophon
Versions

Record

Time

Version 1.0

Initial record，define Nework’s underlying architecture.

2018.2.25

Version 2.0

Added POMT system as amendments and revisions.

2018.3.11

Version 3.0

Added Mission Trade concept.

2018.3.23

Version 4.0

Added Mission company model.

2018.7.27

Version 5.0

Chain company has been upgraded to MissionDAO.

2018.8.14

2

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

Abstract

Nework Foundation Ltd is established in Singapore and managed on a non-profit basis. Nework
is an incentive platform to connect human work skills based on blockchain technology，with the
target of maximizing bilateral value for individual business transactions in the world. It records
personal trusted working hours vector by distributed bookkeeping to achieve the accumulation
and reflection of personal value.At the same time ,Nework built it into individual business vertical
industry public chain by making full use of Ethereum mechanism, and a better individual
business ecological chain by uniting social forces.
The world's individual business economy is rapidly emerging, Nework is committed to release allaround individual productivity globally . Based on the Nework platform, a great deal of work can
be accomplished via the Internet in the future. Enterprises can complete work more efficiently
by the way of diversified business cooperation, instead of recruiting a large number of
employees.
Nework is commit to solve problems in individual business behaviors like trust, anticipation,
transaction, delivery based on smart contract of blockchain technology at the application layer.
At underlying layer, it provides transaction chains adapted to individual businesses based on the
transformed Ethereum， any individual or team can develop on this transaction chains, which will
certainly make it an important business infrastructure.

3

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

Content

Abstract

3

1. Introduction

6

1.1 Blockchain is still on the eve of explosive growth

6

1.2 A great opportunity in individual business

6

2. The solution of Nework

8

2.1 Solving Strategies

8

2.2 Value reflection

9

3. Product Programs

12

3.1 What is Nework

12

3.2 Platform Pattern

13

3.3 Mission Trade

14

3.4 Cooperation

15

3.5 AI Matching

16

3.6 Mission Trade Center

17

3.7 Advertising Center

17

3.8 Product Features

18

4. Expected value of NEW

24

5. Incentiva mechanism

26

5.1 Incentive and punishment mechanism

26

5.2 POMt（Proof Of Mission Trust）

29

6. Ecosystem

30

6.1 R & D team（Nework）

30

6.2 Mission Chain Company holder

30

6.3 User

30

6.4 Developer

31

7. Commercial prospect

32

8. Technological realization

33
4

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

8.1 Client

33

8.2 Core service platform

33

8.3 AI Matching

34

8.4 Underlying Architecture

34

9. Issuing plan

37

9.1 NKC tokens

37

9.2 Distribution Program

37

9.3 pre-sale target

38

9.4 team lock positions promise

38

9.5 Login Exchange

39

10. Development Plan

40

11. Nework Foundation Ltd

41

12. Investment institution&Partner

42

12.1 Investment institution

42

12.2 Partner

42

13. Risk Statement

43

13.1 Disclaimer

43

13.2 Regulatory Risk

43

13.3 Competition Risk

44

13.4 Brain drain risk

44

13.5 Project Technical Risk

44

13.6 Risk of lacking awareness

44

13.7 Hacking Risk

44

13.8 Uninsured loss risk

45

13.9 Other risks unknown to date

45

5

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

1. Introduction

1.1 Blockchain is still on the eve of explosive growth
As the market continues to heat up in recent years, more and more people are beginning
to pay attention to the area of blockchain technology . Especially in 2017, the number of
digital money users ushered a explosive growth, with the active digital wallet users
increasing from less than 5 million at the beginning of the year to more than 20 million
users so far. The skyrocketing users has created a surge in demand markets and more
and more people are beginning to realize that the label of blockchain is not just a of
10,000-fold increase of Bitcoin’s price, but the reestablishment of trust and release of
more trading possibilities. Based on the blockchain technology, it will born countless
possibilities in the business environment, which is about to detonate a new revolution in
information technology.

1.2 A great opportunity in individual business
The birth and popularization of each new technology will generate business opportunities
that subvert the traditional model and emerge the new commercial empire created by
this technology. The era of the Internet born Alibaba, Amazon, eBay and other business
forms, making it convenient for personal trading behaviors ; while in the mobile Internet
era, the birth of Airbnb, Meituan, Didi Chuxing and other giants businesses make it more
convenient to both get services and provide services for profit. It is easy to find that the
development of the Internet has continuous moved closer to the "individual-centered"
and the the dominant position of individual economy in the evolution of

technology is

more and more obviously. Based on the blockchain technology, a more complete
decentralized foundation platform can be built to push the individual business economy
to a higher level or even to its peak.
Individuals providing services in the business include freelancers, shared services
providers, lawyers, Internet celebrities , individual household, special talents, senior
talents and so on. Viewed only from freelancers, this group is growing at an alarming
rate. According to the latest statistics from the McKinsey Global Institute, there are 162
million freelancers in 15 countries in the United States and Europe and by 2025 they are
expected to contribute about 2% of the global GDP with tremendous market space. The
population and business scope covered by individual business is much larger than the
freelancers, we can see that the individual business areas already have sufficient market
6

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

opportunities and demand basis. Blockchain technology is an important weapon that can
leverage the market in the field of individual business, so it is possible to enjoy the bonus
of innovation technology to achieve geometric leap-forward growth if we can can seize
the opportunity.

7

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

2. The solution of Nework

2.1 Solving Strategies
To enrich the blockchain applications of individual business, it need to reduce the risk of
trust to make individual business into a more deterministic shared resources,. Products
and

its development will be very important for only good product can truly solve

problems, and research and development can ensure the business blockchain more
steady operation , more secure transaction and high concurrency capabilities.
Nework found that individuals have a strong will to become the center of the transaction,
but due to the huge cost of trust, more diversified business behaviors can not be carried
out; many issues appear in actual work like unmanageable demand, high costs of trust
and communication, the unconsistent between expect and delivery, no one can
collaborate, the long transaction process and so on. Nework offers a one-stop solution
that anyone can easily post and participate in individual projects, and it also offer a range
of management tools such as the tool that can start virtual chain company ( API
secondary development support). At the same time, the transaction efficiency is
improved through the Token incentive model to make the individual business platform
rapidly start-up and prosperity, and finally make money through the value-added service
and ecological service.

At the blockchain level, Nework is based on the underlying architecture of

distributed

mission trust trade engine (DMTTE), which uses blockchain decentralized ledgers to
8

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

record company ownership information, and solve the transaction problem by intelligent
contract to ensure open and transparent. Thus the Nework can fully ensure the high
performance of read and write operations to effectively avoid the current issues of
blockchain, like the long transaction confirm time, high cost, easy to congestion and so
on, to maximize the smooth interaction experience of the product.
Nework team are from the original PMCAFF community, and the top players of the team
comes from 360, Sina Weibo. The founder, Ade, is a well-known Internet entrepreneur
who have served as growth head of Qunar international hotel, in charge of e-commerce
product at 360 and as head of user incentives and value-added products in Sina Weibo.
He has founded the PMCAFF product manager community for ten years, and has got
many well-known investment such as: Lighthouse Capital, Alpha startups, Axp found, YI
Capital, and also including the angel investors of Toutiao, Liu Jun and so on.

2.2 Value reflection
Nework - invest in yourself. Starting from Nework, human will set off a wave of entering an era
of individual value. Nework records credible working hours vectors for individuals based on a
non-tampered distributed ledger. The higher the Trusted Working Hours vector, the higher the
value of individuals on Nework, and everyone can accumulate credible working hours vectors to
realize personal values.

1）Token incentive and circulation, to maximum the value
Any behaviors users participate on the platform may earn or spend token, through the POMt
Incentive system, Nework truly drives Token's circulate and continuously improves the value of
NEW. For example : user creates a personal Mission Page can get token award from platform;
user invites friends to join can also earn Token; user releases skills need to spend Token, user
endorses investment for others also need to pay Token, users who want to establish contact
with a big person can initiate strange private chat through token and so on.

2）Value feedback mechanism of trust link to minimize the cost of trust
Based on the POMt mechanism, fully exploiting the characteristics of the blockchain, any
behavior based on the trust chain will participate in the allocation of the new block to motivate
people to reduce the trust cost together. Such as: investing in friends, paying Token as a trusted
endorsement of friends, trading failure or success of friend will correspond to penalties and
incentives; Improving the broadcast of work skills chain and endorsement by promoting work
skills for friends can also earn Token; In the process of skills trading, the situation of disputes
9

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

can initiate social arbitration, the system through intelligent matching engine node to participate
in arbitration.

3）Effective anti-cheating, high cost，meaningless and high risk
Nework is based on the blockchain and takes the trustworthiness working time vector as the
main measure. It perfectly avoids various cheat behaviors in current internet transactions and
reduces the selection cost more effectively for users in need.
Cheating costs are high. On Nework, every trade order is deducted by 1% of the transaction
amount back to the chain, which makes a loss of at least 1% of the transaction amount for each
cheat.
Cheat is not very significant, Nework based on the time vector, if a task takes 10 hours, the
system can record at most 10 hours at the same period, which make check or scalp no sense.
At the period of scalp , the executor are not allowed to take other missions for it occupied your
work time.
High risk of cheating, the process is recorded, behaviors like malicious cheats or scalps may
lead to credit bankruptcy if identified by system.

4）Contract template can not be tampered with ,ensure the full protection for individual
business
Nework provides users with basic contract templates and market for sale to pay or earn token.
Each valid contract can not be tampered , for individual business to improve the effectiveness of
reducing transaction risk. When a demand or execution party issues a demand or skill, it is
equivalent to initiating a work order, and the other party claiming that the work order is
equivalent to a closing transaction will generate a contract automatically. Nework provides the
basic version of the contract template, everyone can make changes in the basic template, into a
contract template to meet their needs. Different industries, different skills have different needs
in the contract, Nework supports and welcomes all walks of life to participate in the construction
of the contract template market, Nework contract template will become more and more vertical,
such as: the legal profession, the design industry, consulting Industry and more.

5）Original mission-based virtual chain company mechanism
Nework streamlines the complexity of offline business forms and processes and brings everyone
back to the business itself, creating Mission-based Mission Chain Company. Based on missions,
10

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

chain companies break through a variety of geographical, financial, management restrictions,
such as you want to create "only the greatest UI" chain company, based on the Mission who
apply to join the company only needs to get more than 51% Through the people can work
together for the great UI. Chain companies support trading, chain appreciation, or trading for
everyone. Nework is an individual business economy chain based on the fact that more items
can be hatched in the chain and NEW can also be used as a basis for issuing its own ICO Token.

6）More and more prosperous and never stop work skills needs
As long as man still needs work, there is always a demand for job skills. From all the data, the
demand for individual work skills will become more and more prosperous. This is a never-ending
market. Nework is a platform for the global individual business community, as the user coverage
gradually increased, trading activities may happens 24 hours and credible total hours vector
continuously increase, Nework will eventually achieve the global individual business The record
of the trusted time vector.

7） Innovative self-marketing / recruiting strategies
Nework - invest in yourself. There are many ways to improve your own personal value on
Nework, and in principle it is investment in yourself, Including someone pay token to endorse
you, to expand the breadth of the connection, reward Token for friends to help promote your
skills, trading skills to earn Token and Mission Trust (Trusted Working Time Vector).
For the demand side, the system intelligently matches the executive candidate based on the
demand, and fully understands the work track, the result and the credit of executors by the
trusted working time vector which can greatly reduce the decision cost and the transaction
failure rate, Way to improve the quality.

8）A new ecology of advertising and tools
In most of the current business platform, by the platform side of the operation of advertising
decisions, and from which to make high profits. In the decentralized Nework, the user's skills can
be motivated by paying the token to motivate other users to forward a chain of trust
endorsements.
In Nework will be born more ecological tools, such as: digital gifts, users can pay token on the
platform to buy virtual gift to reward mutually. Nework is an incentive platform based on
blockchain technology that connects human work skills. On nework, people can easily participate
in all kinds of work as one of the individual business nodes.
11

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

3. Product Programs

3.1 What is Nework
The open project also allows onlookers to participate in likes and forward to contribute the
positive energy, both of which can get Token incentives from the nework bonus pool. When the
business develops to relatively large, you can also open your own virtual company, provide multiperson collaboration and API secondary development.
After Nework come online, it will issue Token: Nework Token for the orderly promotion of
development. As to facilitate participation in the transaction, the transaction data will be
recorded in the blockchain to ensure the truth can not be tampered with.

Dapp

App

•••

Portal

OpenAPI

GateWay

Account

Services

SSO/LDAP

Profile

AI Matching
SNS

NLP

Ads.

Deep Learning

Mission Trade
Center

TensorFlow

DevOps

Engine
Mission Trade

Mission Chain Company

POM

Smart Contract

Ethereum

Nework Coin

Mission trust

Iterative Devs

Docker

git

Monitor

12

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

3.2 Platform Pattern
The Nework platform offers an innovative Mission Trade trading model where everyone
completes the deal autonomously. Everyone is a transaction body such as: Starbucks, Apple and
so on. Users can post deals, participate in deals, create chain companies, join chain companies,
buy or sell chain companies, and more. In order to find a suitable transaction, the trading market
provides search and match mechanism for transaction information. During this period, the user's
Mission trust will be clearly displayed so that you can select the best user for trading.
To introduce the Mission trust mechanism to the platform, Mission trust can not be traded and
must be rewarded by POM through trading. Misssion power will become an important reference
for trading options. Mission trust records the data of people success or failure. The people with
higher Mission Trust will get a higher platform reward.
To solve individual business problems of scale and tandardization, but also can be set up chain
company directly on the platform to projec the entity's business, the platform provides an API to
facilitate the development of more services based on its own business, so that each individual's
business bigger and bigger. Users can create companies and also join the company to work
together. Users will enjoy the reward when he make the company bigger, and the company
provides Log records to facilitate members to view every transaction, but also play reward on
the trading partners.

Nework

13

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

3.3 Mission Trade
Every transaction on the Nework platform counts as a Mission Trade and all users participate in
the released Mission Trade. Direct Trade users of Mission Trade can communicate, confirm or
terminate the transaction during the transaction. Non-direct participation by Mission Trade users
can be rewarded for likes, favors, etc. Nework facilitates the forward transactions through the
POMt mechanism.

Nework offers a variety of trading scenarios to ensure the circulation of Token continually and
dynamically.
1. Initiation
The issuer fills in the demand and project information, and at the same time selects the Token
of expenditure for the compensation of the executive, the cost of the platform, and the share of
users of other participating projects.
2. Matching
According to the publisher's task information, the matching engine will push the project
information to the appropriate executor to improve the transaction success rate.
3. Arbitration
If there is a dispute during the project, enter the arbitration process, the system selects a
certain number of users for voting and arbitration, and allocates Token according to the
arbitration result. The users participating in the arbitration will also get the corresponding Token.
4. Gas / miner
14

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

In order to speed up system operation and improve system throughput, a certain number of
mining machines are required to mine and each transaction deals with gas as a reward for
mining machines.
5. Bidding
The publisher may, according to the provider's availability, increase or decrease the price of the
Token that is offered as a reward for the project. After receiving the assignment from the
publisher, the executing party may choose to accept the bid or reject it.
6. Link path of recommend share
When the executing user receives the item push, he or she can share the information to other
users without participating in the project. If the end user completes the project, the sharing user
also receives a certain percentage of Token Reward.
7. Cross-domain collaboration platform
One project of the publisher can be completed by users of different implementing parties, and
the project is divided into shares according to the proportion.
8. Match engine and payment
Matching engine will be based on the publisher's project information and the executing side of
the user's skills, the current project situation and other information in accordance with the
matching degree of screening out eligible for the implementation of the user.
The matching engine matches a certain number of actors at a time, and if the publisher needs
more executor information, you can increase the Token for more matches.
Matching engine will consider the whole platform of information: project information, user
information, user skills, user history transaction information ....
Matching engine will be used machine learning, according to the completion of the transaction,
and constantly improve the matching strategy.

3.4 Cooperation
In order to meet the needs of different parties, Nework platform provides users with an iterative
collaborative template contract tool, users can purchase the most suitable transaction
15

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

collaboration template by paying token, and group users can enjoy additional advanced
functions through payment.
1) Todo panel
Platform provides panel function, real-time master job list and status.
2) Template (basic)
Contract template for individual transactions, with the development and maturity of the
platform, the contract template will become more and more industrialized, verticalization, to
provide an effective solution for the vertical industry.
3) Template contract, pay for use
Platform provides a variety of basic templates, third-party developers or applications can pay for
use.
4)Can not change the process management
Once the contract is executed, the process is recorded in the blockchain and can not be
modified.
5) Quality Assurance
When the transaction completed, if any parties
After the completion of the transaction, both parties to the transaction may dispute the quality
of the deliverable and may settle the dispute through arbitration. First, all users on the platform
(users approved by both parties) will vote. If the result is still controversial, it may apply for
platform arbitration (platform matching Engine recommended users), to pay the relevant costs.
6) Team payment
Users can set up a team to complete the task, according to the size of the team, pay the use of
cycle.

3.5 AI Matching
With "smart big data" as the core, the user's characteristics (experience, skills, etc.) and the
project characteristics (categories, functions) database are established. When the user releases
16

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

the project, the project features and business needs are analyzed according to the project
characteristics, and automatically match out the relevant technical staff. At the same time, it
recommend executor for sponsor and recommend project to executors. Thus finding the best
partner with less effort and cost. Users can rate the recommended results, the algorithm
automatically recalculates based on scores, to achieve self-learning, improve the accuracy of the
recommendation.

A

A

B

B
Sponsor

C
C

Mission Trust

Executors

3.6 Mission Trade Center
In order to promote the platform development, Nework provides a trading center, and the user
can Trade Mission in the transaction center, which behavior can be invited to participants and
shared. During the course of the transaction, Nework introduced the concept of Proof of
Mission (POM) into the Mission Trade's trading process. Each transaction will participate in the
calculation of POM, and the results will be publicly and transparently recorded in the blockchain.
Among them, Mission Power acts as the trust certificate of the market, and the higher the
Mission Power value is, the higher the value of the entity is mapped.

3.7 Advertising Center
Nework provides an advertising hub for platform chain company growth, and the supporting
chain companies buy advertising space through Token, as well as support external companies
buy advertising space in cash. The ad center, combined with recommendation algorithms and
DSP distribution logic, also can serve ads beyond Nework through the API.

17

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

3.8 Product Features

3.8.1 Account System
Nework platform provides a complete set of account system, users can register by mobile
phone number or mailbox and then join the Nework platform after successful registration. We
will assign a unique Digital identity (Digital identity) and Digital wallet for each user, which will be
written to the blockchain network. Users can use this unique digital identity to establish or join
the MissionDAO, one user can add multiple MissionDAO, participate in the construction of
multiple MissionDAO. All MissionDAO participated construction behavior of users will be mapped
to the platform on a unique number assigned to the user identity.

3.8.2 Mission Page
Mission Page is the core tool for the Nework platform to demonstrate individual user value.
Users' personal information and a range of activity activities on the Nework platform are
recorded on the Mission Page, including user skills, endorsements, columns, Mission Power, and
authentication information .
1. Establish profile
Users create and refine their Mission Page messages, Mission Page will show users’ behaviors
in MissionDAO.
2. Publish skills
Users can post more skills by paying the token, and the published skills appear on their Mission
Page.
3. Skill promotion
Users can pay token to promote their published skills.
4. Private message
On Mission Page, users can initiate a private message by pays to other users.
5. Endorsement and Investment

18

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

The user endorses someone for endorsement. When you endorse others, you must pay token to
share the risks and benefits with your investors.
6. Mission Power - valid trusted work time vector
The user's Mission Power is displayed on the Mission Page as one of the criteria for judging the
user's proficiency.
7. POMt Equityedge
Nework platform calculate the level of user proficiency mechanism.
8. Column
The user's logbook during the transaction will be displayed in the Mission Page as a column.
9. Collaborative certification
A new user registration, the platform will be recommended to the same skills of registered
users, registered users by the common certification.
10. Decentralized identification
The personal information of all platform users is absolutely safe. When a user wants to obtain
the user information of others, they must be read with the consent of the information owner.

3.8.3 Mission Trade Center
With the improvement of the ecological and more users’ join, will inevitably produce more
Mission Trade and the MissionDAO. A certain mechanism is needed if users want to find the
Mission Trade or MissionDAO that they interests. Therefore, we launched the mechanism of the
Mission Trade Center.
The Trading Center is Nework's foundation function, responsible for the collection and
presentation of all Mission Trade and MissionDAO.

19

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

3.8.4 Mission DAO
People with the same Mission power can set up a MissionDAO, each MDAO has a unique access
license, for easy access and memory of members of the company. Ownership of the chain
company will be recorded through the blockchain ledger to ensure the truth can not be
tampered with. MDAO can be the main business activities, MDAO participants can enjoy the
MDAO trading revenue share of benefits. Specific split will be unified by Nework's unique POMt
mechanism to calculate the reference dimensions include the cost of each user into the MDAO,
the user Mission Power chain share, the number of transactions involving the user. In addition, in
order to make chain business more scale, standardization, asset-based, Nework allows
MissionDAO to trade. The benefits of the sale of the company will also be calculated and
distributed by the system through the POMt mechanism. Finally, when the Mission power of the
MDAO is less than one, the chain company bankrupts and dissolves its reputation in order to
achieve the survival of the fittest.

3.8.5 Interactive features

20

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

1、Mission Trade
1）Claim
When the sponsor and the executor agree on the Mission Trade, the executor can initiate the
claim. At this point, the sponsor will receive the claim and the Mission Trade Contract will be
activated and approved by the smart contract management;
2）In progress
When the Mission Trade contract takes effect, the contract becomes active, in which case the
sponsor will not be able to invite or accept another person's claim. In this state, both sides can
apply for an interruption;
3）Finish
When the implementer has reached a contract in Mission Trade, the application can be initiated
and completed. After the application is approved, the executive party can obtain the pre-set
salary of the Mission Trade and the two parties receive the Mission Power award.
4）Interrupt
After the user agrees to claim the Mission Trade, both parties may initiate an interrupted
application. When both parties agree, the Mission Trade will be judged as failed. At this time,
both parties will be punished, that is, the corresponding Mission power will be reduced, and the
corresponding NEW will be deducted.
5）Share
When users view or publish Mission Trade, users can share this task to other third-party
platforms so that more users can claim their rights.
6）Invitation
When the user releases the Mission Trade, he or she can make a directional invitation. After the
invitation is made, the invited party will receive the invitation notice and agree to obtain the
Mission Trade.
7）Comment, like

21

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

All users can comment on the published Mission Trade, praise, comment or praise after the
relevant comments and praise amount will be displayed publicly, and participating users will
receive Mission Power as a reward.
8）Reward
When NKC (Nework Coin) is available in the user's account, you can enjoy the Mission Trade in
progress
1, if the transaction is confirmed to be interrupted halfway, then all the reward amount will be
fully returned Nework reward pool;
2. If the transaction is fully completed, the prize money will be distributed as an incentive to the
sponsor and executor of Mission Trade, and all the players will receive the Mission power
reward.
2、Mission DAO
1）Join
Users can choose to join the Mission DAO according to their wish, each user can joins multiple
Mission DAO and has an independent identity in each Mission DAO. If more than one-half
members of the Mission DAO vote through when a user applies to join, the application is
determined to be successful. The Mission Coin and Mission Power, which the user acquired by
completing Mission Trade after joining, will be pro-rated under the Mission DAO.
2）Exit
The user can choose to opt out of a Mission DAO and the Mission Power provided by the user
for the company will remain in the Mission DAO’s Mission Power system after exiting, but when
the user is at a Mission Trade, the user cannot exit, must complete or dismiss the Mission Trade
before exiting.
3）Sale/Buy
The user can trade Mission DAO with the NKC at the Trading Center and the transaction needs
to be approved by more than 51% of the members in the company before the order can be
completed.
4）Bankruptcy

22

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

When a Mission DAO’s Mission Power drops to 0, it automatically determines is in bankruptcy.
The bankruptcy company will not be able to perform any of its activities, include claiming,
releasing Mission Trade, or purchasing Mission DAO.

3.8.6 Ecological Platform
Nework is a well-established ecosystem of platforms that individual users can set up through the
support provided by the Nework platform and even complete the ICO process on the platform.
Nework has a comprehensive API system to meet the needs of the vast majority of users based
on Nework's development needs and to promote the evolution of the platform by accessing
more external applications.
Nework provides users with advertising and incentive platform to help users through the
advertising platform to promote marketing efforts, and can be used to motivate other users by
token forwarded.
Nework provides a digital gift platform, users can purchase virtual gifts on the platform token to
reward each other.

3.8.7 Filtration
Because all the data in the blockchain is untamable, the keywords should be filtered to prevent
the bad consequences caused by illegal words.

23

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

4. Expected value of NEW

NEW issue total of 1 billion yuan, five decimal places, a coin is called 1NEW, the smallest unit of
NC (1NC is equal to 0.00001NEW, which is equal to one hundred thousand NEW).

4.1 Value of Nework
Nework is a fast-growing platform that will host tens of thousands of transactions and Mission
DAO in the future. As the platform users continue to grow, and the sustainable development of
ecological economy, NKC’s value will continue to rise.

4.2 Obtain of NKC
1. Participate in private placement support projects, using ETH exchange
2. Participate in Nework ecological construction, access to the system of NEW incentives
3. Participate in the high quality Mission Trade to get others NEW rewards
4. Buy on third-party trading platform

4.3 Applation of NEW
The application scenarios of NEW include but not limited to:
1.users can pay NEW to post of purchase skills ;
2.users can pay NEW to invest endorsement on others;
3.users can use NEW to reward or send red packets to each other;
4.the platform offer NEW to motivated users with successful transaction and users in trust link
chain.
5.users can pay NEW to buy third-party applications.
6.users can pay NEW to buy digital gifts;
24

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

7.users can pay NEW to advertise and forward skills;
8.users can pay NEW to send messages to senior users on platform initiatively;

4.3 Deflation and inflation of NEW
1) The user password is lost, resulting in dead NEW users, the currency will be recovered (or
destroyed), will result in NEW deflation.
2) If the amount of coins held by the bank is too low, users who can not pay transaction fees will
be treated as non-current coins, which will result in the deflation of NEW.
3) other value-added

25

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

5. Incentiva mechanism

5.1 Incentive and punishment mechanism
To incentive the Mission Trade with high efficiency and high quality execution, Nework set up
ITS(Incentives of Trade Success) and PTF(Punishment for Trade Failure) to incentive and
punishment.
In Nework, users and Mission Power of Mission DAO are the only basis for measuring its value
and interest. The POM (Proof of Mission) algorithm can build NKC dispense mechanism, the
rewards pool is calculated based on the Mission Power value of users to dispense the NKC to
wallet of users.

5.1.1 Incentive mechanism
After completed the Mission trade, the published user need to pay NKC to executed user as
reward. Both them can obtain the Mission Power value as award. The Mission DAO of the user
who executed the Mission Trade can also get Mission Power value. If it’s failure to execute the
Mission Trade, both them can be punished, decreasing Mission Power value, and deduct
corresponding NKC.

5.1.2 Reward Pool
Rewards pool is used to reward both transaction users. The platform automatically replenished
the rewards pool every day according to the reward elasticity coefficient.

5.1.3 Reward Pool
Nework counts the Mission Power values of the user and the virtual company on a daily basis,
and add NKC to rewards pool automatically by POM. When the NKC in rewards pool is less than
0.001, it will be dispense next time.

26

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

Nework uses 25% of Token for motivation, and Nework's fairness is crucial for long-lasting
human access. Premature consumption of Token is very unfair to future generations and affects
the sustainability of ecology. Designed a two-tier incentive mechanism:
First floor: Nework will take 25% of the Token divided into five years to release, and release the
rest 50%

of reminding each year, finished on the fifth year, thus ensuring the rapid

development of the previous five years.
The second floor: In order ensure the value of Nework to all human beings, it is necessary to
provide good opportunities for future access to mankind in the world and work together to build
an ecological environment. With reference to the growth of global stable economies, an
additional 3% will be issued each year from the second year so that future generations will still
enjoy fair access in the next 10, 50 and 100 years.

27

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

Where n represents the number of issuance years, To is the total issued NEW, Tn is the current
number of issued NEW, Mt is the number of the current year's issue.

except for the 15% in first year ,from the second year ,the additional issued New is

then the number of issues per day:

The issued NEW, issued daily, is assigned to each user and virtual company according to the
POMt algorithm.

5.1.4 Compute mode of Mission Trust
In Nework, the total number of Mission trusts that can be generated for each completed
transaction is:

Then, the sponsor can get 55% Mp, the executor can get 40% Mp, and the virtual company can
get 5% Mp.

28

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

Where v is the number of Mcoins traded set for each Mission Trade, p is the degree of difficulty
set for each Mission Trade, of which 30% and 70% are weighting factors for the transactions
volume and the degree of difficulty.
Assuming the n successful transactions successfully happened in entire network , then the
totally generated number of Missin Power is:

The percentages of Mission trust for sponsor, executor and virtual companies are respectively
55%, 40% and 5%.
When the Mission Trade failed to perform, the platform reduced the user's Mission trust value
by 40% for both sponsor and executor.

5.2 POMt（Proof Of Mission Trust）
POMt is the credit earned by completing Mission Trade. The user's credit consist of the number
of issued Mission Trade issues, the number of successful Mission Trade, the price of successful
Mission Trade, the number of failed execution of Mission Trade,the price of failed Mission
Trade , the success The execution time of successful Mission Trade and other factors.
In other words, POMt builds an incentive mechanism based on self-learning multidimensional
grading model optimization techniques, it relies entirely on user activeness, transaction levels
and transaction quality in the platform so that users' values can be most appropriately reflected.

29

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

6. Ecosystem

6.1 R & D team（Nework）
As the initiator of Nework project, R & D team of

Nework is committed to completing the

construction and maintenance of the entire project. In order to implement Nework's platform
value better, the Nework team will continue to improve the blockchain technology and continue
to optimize the platform based on the blockchain technology. At the premise of helping more
and more users quickly solve the problem, the Nework team pursue better experience and
sustained values for users.

6.2 Mission Chain Company holder
The Mission DAO holder is the holder of a single chain company on Nework.
Any individual or organization can become the holder of a chain company by paying 50 Mcoin
for a Mission DAO in Nework.
Chain company holder can post their demand on the Nework platform based on Mission Chain
Company, while chain company holders can also enhance the company's competitiveness by
attracting more excellent executors and then enhance the company's value by fulfilling more
tasks on platform。
As the cornerstone of the entire ecosystem, the Nework platform will be based on its exclusive
POMt (Proof of Mission) reward and punishment mechanism to enhance or reduce the weight
value of chain companies to ensure efficient operation of the platform.

6.3 User
All holders of accounts generated on the Nework platform are considered one user of the
platform. All platform users have two roles on the Mission Trade: Sponsor and Executor, users
can get POMt rewards or penalties by involving in Mission Trade on Nework platform, and the
user is the key elements to ensure the normal operation of platform.

30

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

6.3.1 Sponsor
The sponsor is one of the user roles that builds the ecology of the Nework platform. The
sponsor can be an individual or a Mission DAO. The sponsor can post mission on the Nework
platform without limitation on form, but the originator is required to declare the mission value at
the same time that the mission is posted.
After the release of the mission, the sponsor can take the initiative to choose a different
performer or chain company. The mission trade is deemed to be reached if the two sides come
to an agreement on the implementation standards and results, they both get POMt award from
the platform, otherwise, the mission trade fail and the corresponding penalty is assigned to both
sides according to POMt award and penalty mechanism.

6.3.2 Executor
The executor is another user role in building the Nework platform ecosystem, it also can be both
an individual and Mission DAO. The executor can post their skills on Nework platform and the
skill information will be displayed on the executor's profile. The performer must also declare the
value of the skill when releasing that.
After the skills are released, the executor can take the initiative to select missions released by
different individuals or chain companies to claim, The mission trade is deemed to be reached if
the two sides come to an agreement on the implementation standards and results, they both get
POMt award from the platform, otherwise, the mission trade fail and the corresponding penalty
is assigned to both sides according to POMt award and penalty mechanism.

6.4 Developer
Developers are an important part of the Nework platform ecosystem and they are supposed to
diversify Nework's platform information.
Nework is an open underlying trading platform from beginning to end. Any organization or
individual with development

skills can build third party applications based on Nework's open

attributes to help Nework platform users handle more business.

31

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

7. Commercial prospect

Nework's vision is to become the largest and most active business platform in the blockchain
digital world. As the number of digital currency users and penetration continue to grow, the
potential for Nework's stimulating cooperative productivity will gradually be released and
eventually reach geometrically growth.
It will also make it possible for more individuals to complete more business transactions online,
built Mission DAO rapidly, and even more help them to map entity business to Nework ecology
through API.
Nework business revenue is mainly concentrated in several ways:
1. Mission Trade related transactions commission, the platform get a cut from users in the
completion of the production, trading, exchange, consumption, cooperation and other process .
2. The platform get a cut in the purchase and transaction of Mission DAO.
3. Shared ad revenues by getting through contextual ads information.
4. API and efficiency tool revenue, Mission DAO using the API and SaaS tools provided by the
platform will pay monthly.

32

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

8. Technological realization

NWC overall architecture can be divided into three layers, the client, the core platform system,
the underlying architecture.

8.1 Client
Client refers to various terminal products provided by NWcoin to users, it supports iOS, Andriod,
Web Browser and other platforms. NWC platform also provides a complete set of RESTful API,
any individual and company developers can develop station applications based on this API.

8.2 Core service platform
The core service platform is implemented using a loosely coupled, highly cohesive and
decentralized SAAS microservices architecture. The core service platforms consist of several
service units like registration center, message center, log center, and configuration center. Each
service unit can be deployed independently.
Clients visit the core services provided by Nework through the RESTful API.
Account: an open account management platform, record user-related assets, and provide thirdparty account login.
SNS (Social Platform): After the user releases the Mission Trade, users can share it to thirdparty platform and all users can participate in the comments or likes to completed projects, and
the participating users will receive the reward of the corresponding Mission.
MCC (Transaction Center): Users can post or claim mission in the trading center , the platform
will track the progress of the project.

33

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

8.3 AI Matching
The matching model accurately matches the two sides in the truncations according to the eight
dimensions like skills, credit and ability to achieve oriented invitation and project
recommendation.

8.3.1 Matching Algrim
In order to better match the project and skills, enhance the success rate of collaboration
between the publisher and the claimant, the platform establishes a feature library based on the
dimensions such as the account balance, POMt weight,whether claim mission , account ratings
and tag matching, to reach accurate match.
According to Pearson's formula, it calculate the similarity between user u and label v:

Where, Puv represents the set project matched by user u and label v. Ru,a and Rv, a respectively
represent the match score of user u and label v to mission a, Ru and Rv respectively represent
the average score of user u and label v.

8.3.2 Self-learning Model
Based on the Big Data accurate matching blockchain data across the entire network, Mission
Trade completion, and Mission Trade evaluations from both sides to train the ranking model,
then to calculate the completion probability and sales a Mission Trade

8.4 Underlying Architecture
It adopt chain block and DMTTE underlying technology architecture

8.4.1 Blockchain
Account
Account：The user's unique digital identity.
Token
34

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

Nework's Token (NKC) is based on the ERC20 standard. Users can view their NKC information
through the Nework or any application that supports the ERC20 standard. Before Nework's
exclusive blockchain come online , Nework will launch its original Token based on Ethereum, and
migrate when the chain is complete, the migration will not effect user’s usage and digital
assets.
Ecological rules
POMt incentive-based share rules;
Number of NKC required to purchase Mission DAO;
And other ecological rules that need to be added as Nework evolves.

Smart contract

contract MissionTrade {
mapping (address => uint) balances;
mapping (address => uint) trusts;
// 可信凭证
function POMt(address sender, address rev) returns(bool isOk){
trusts[sender] += getPOMt();
trusts[rev] += getPOMt();
}
// 写⼊入账本
function sendCoin(address receiver, uint amount) returns(bool sufficient)
{
if (balances[msg.sender] < amount) return false;
balances[msg.sender] -= amount;
balances[receiver] += amount;
// 分配 Mission Trust
POMt(msg.sender, receiver);
return true;
}
function getBalanceInEth(address addr) returns(uint){
return ConvertLib.convert(getBalance(addr),2);
}
function getBalance(address addr) returns(uint) {
return balances[addr];
}
}

35

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

Ethereum's smart contracts are Turing-complete, and in Nework's ecosystem, many constraints
are written into smart contracts, including the realization of the following contracts.

8.4.2 DMTTE
DMTTE (Distributed Mision Trade Engine) is developed based on smart contract with chain block
technology, it is a transparent and trustworthy, highly scalable, distributed, middleware-free
basic functional engine that complies with the POMt Incentive Mechanism.

36

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

9. Issuing plan

9.1 NKC tokens
In order to effectively motivate community builders and participants to realize the platform's
status quo, Nework launches the platform's original Token -NEW, with a total amount of 1 billion.
Mission trust is issued to increase the trustworthiness of both partners.

9.2 Distribution Program
30% pre-sale
15% Management Fund
25% incentive fund
20% core team (R & D and operations)
10% Ecological Fund

9.2.1 Early pre-sale
R & D for the Nework platform, investment in hardware and bandwidth costs, project operations,
etc. to ensure project sustainability.

9.2.2 Management Committee Fund
Nework is a long-term business, in order to continue to promote Nework's prosperity and
development, we need to constantly attract the best people to work with us; the same time,
Nework in the development process to achieve some important milestones, the need and more
More partners to complete. This section is the team members who joined and contributed to the
continued motivation later, as well as important business partners.

37

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

9.2.3 Incentive Fund
Nework uses a two-tiered incentive mechanism for long-lasting fair access: The first floor, which
accounts for 25% of the total Token NKC, rents into the platform rewards pool, releasing 50%
of the remaining amount each year, all the way to the fifth year. The second level refers to the
growth rate of the world's stable economy (3%), with 3% of the total issuance annually since the
following year. The total number of Tokens in the first and second levels serves as a bonus pool
for motivating users. Based on the POMt, the system will determine the reward elasticity and
assign a corresponding amount of NKC and Mission trust to the reward pool daily. Starting from
the first year, every year in the form of additional supplement state reward base.

9.2.4 Core Team (R & D and Operations, etc.)
Nework R & D team for the birth and development of Nework to provide full product and
technology support, paid a great deal of attention and effort. As well as early contributors By
providing resources, funding provided indispensable assistance to the construction of Nework,
with a reasonable share of NKC as a reward for both.

9.2.5 Ecological Fund
Nework's initial launch will set aside 10% of NKC as a state-of-the-art base for incubating or
supporting premium applications based on Nework's ground floor for secondary development.

9.3 pre-sale target
This pre-sale, which accounts for 30% of the total number of launches, or 300 million NKC, is
only available to certain buyers and raised in the form of ETH or BTC with a total equivalent of
approximately $ 30 million. The presale target is only open to certain overseas buyers (非 China
mainland).

9.4 team lock positions promise
20% of the NKC held by the founding team of Nework will all freeze after the pre-sale. The team
promised to lock the warehouse 33 month. The first unlock after the completion of the six
fundraising, followed by a quarter of each unlock part does not exceed 10% of the total team
money.

38

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

9.5 Login Exchange
Nework plans to land overseas digital currency exchanges and open trades when conditions are
ripe.

39

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

10. Development Plan

late Aug.2017

Proposal for Nework platform construction and development

middle Dec.2017

Register Nework666.com domain name

middle Dec.2017

Start requirement research on product integration of blockchain and
internet trading platform.

late Dec.2017

Complete technical research and selection, determine the system
architecture solution

Jan.2018
Late Jan.2018

Officially enabled Nework.pro domain name, Nework official
website come online
Newark project start to pre-sale

Mar.2018

Complete the entire design of product

Apr.2018

Start the underlying architecture design and development

Q2.2018

Complete the development of basic function and the
verification of MVP, complete the development of web client

Q3.2018

Start Alpha test，iOS，Android client development

Q4.2018

Public beta come online，open to all users

Q1.2019

Complete the development of the blockchain open platform based
ethereum to test

Q2.2019

Migrate Nework business to the blockchain open platform

Q3.2019

API platform and advertising system come online

40

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

11. Nework Foundation Ltd

The Nework Foundation Ltd's entity and members are based in Singapore and are managed nonprofitably. The individual business economy is rapidly emerging globally, Nework is commit to
release global individual productivity all-round, making it a giant in individual transaction area like
Alibaba.
Team members have rich experience in the area of blockchain and deep accumulation and
exploration in C2C skills transactions, at the same time, they work in close collaboration with
PMCAFF (the world's largest Internet product manager community) ,with the target of the
development and operation of Nework.

41

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

12. Investment institution&Partner

12.1 Investment institution

12.2 Partner

BigONE

42

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

13. Risk Statement

13.1 Disclaimer
This document is only for informational purposes and its content is only for reference, it does
not represent as any representation, solicitation or solicitation of a sale of stock or securities in
Nework and its related companies. This document is not composed or understood as providing
any purchase behavior , nor is it a contract or commitment of any form.
Given the unpredictable conditions, the goals outlined in this white paper may change. Although
the team will do its best to achieve all of the goals of this white paper, all individuals and teams
that purchase NWCs should be at its own risk. Portions of the document may be adjusted in the
new white paper as the project progresses and the team will release the update by posting a
notice or a new white paper on the site.
Nework expressly disclaims any direct or indirect damages by the Participants including:
1, relying on the contents of this document;
2, the wrong information, negligent or inaccurate information in this document;
3, any behavior caused by this document.
The team will work hard to achieve the goals mentioned in the document, but due to the
existence of force majeure, the team can not fully fulfill its commitment.
NWC is a tool for generating performance on the Nework platform but not an investment
product. NWC is not a type of ownership or control. The control of NWC does not represent the
ownership of Nework or Nework applications and NWC does not grant any individual rights to
participate, control, or make any decisions about Nework and Nework applications.

13.2 Regulatory Risk
As the development of the blockchain is still in its early stages, there are no relevant regulatory
documents in the world such as preconditions, transaction requirements, information disclosure
requirements and lock-in requirements in the process of raising funds. And it is unclear how the
current policy will be implemented. All of these factors may have an uncertain impact on the
development and mobility of the project. While blockchain technology has become the main
target of regulation in all major countries in the world, the Newor application or NWC may be
affected if the regulatory body intervenes or exerts influence. For example, the restriction of the
43

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

use by laws, NWC may be restrict ,hinder or even direct terminate Nework applications and NKC
development.

13.3 Competition Risk
Many block chain project highly competitive in current areas , there is a strong market
competition and project operating pressure. Nework project whether can break through in many
outstanding projects, get widely recognized, both related with its own team capabilities, vision
planning and other aspects linked competitors and even the oligarchy in the market, during
which there is the possibility of facing vicious competition.

13.4 Brain drain risk
Nework brings together a dynamic and talented team of talent, attracting senior practitioners in
the area of blockchain, experienced technical developers and more. In the future development,
Nework will not rule out the possibility of the negative impact on the overall team as a result of
the departure of core personnel and the conflict within the team.

13.5 Project Technical Risk
The accelerated development of cryptography or developments in technology such as the
development of quantum computers may bring the risk of cracking to the Nework platform, it
may result in the loss of NWCs. During the project update, there may be some loopholes. Once
the loopholes are discovered, they will be repaired promptly, but there is no guarantee that this
will not cause any impact.

13.6 Risk of lacking awareness
Nework applications has the probability that

not be used by a large number of individuals or

organizations, which means that the public is not interested enough to develop and develop
these related distributed applications. Such a lack of interest may have a negative impact on
NWC and Nework applications.

13.7 Hacking Risk
Nework is at risk of attack by hackers or other organizations, including but not limited to denial
of service attacks, Sybil attacks, malware attacks, or conformance attacks.
44

Nework - Incentive platform for connecting human skills based on chain block technology

13.8 Uninsured loss risk
Unlike bank accounts or other financial institutions' accounts, there is usually no insurance
coverage on Nework accounts or related blockchain networks, and in no event will there be any
public entity guaranteeing your losses.

13.9 Other risks unknown to date
In addition to the risks mentioned in this white paper, there are other risks not yet mentioned or
unexpected by the founding team. In addition, other risks may also appear suddenly or in a
combination of the several types of risks already mentioned.
All participants should have a full understanding of the team background, know the overall
framework of the project and ideas, get a rational attitude before make any decision.

Nework
Incentive platform for connecting human skills
based on chain block technology
Official website：nework.pro
Email：jialin@nework.pro

45

