New insurance ecosystem

1

4

1.0. Abstract / Intro

1.1. Background

6

2.0. Summary of The Insureum Protocol

11

2.1. Policyholders

13

2.3. Developers

14

2.2. Insurance companies
		

2.3.1. The Challenge

2.4. Third parties

3.0. Changes to Value Chains with the Insureum Protocol
3.1. Phase 1: Product Development

13
14

16
17

20

		

3.1.1. Data purchase

22

		

3.1.3. Value distribution

23

3.3. Phase 3: Claim management

26

3.1.2. Product development

3.2. Phase 2: Sales and marketing
3.4. Use Cases

22
24

27

		

3.4.1. Micro insurance (Short-term, specific coverage) 27

		

3.4.3. Risk prevention

		
		

3.4.2. Usage-based insurance (UBI)

28

3.4.4. Personalized insurance / P2P insurance

28

4.0. Insureum Token Dynamics
4.1. InsureTech

28

29

30

4.2. Data value dynamics

30

4.4. Strategies to boost adoption

31

4.3. Insureum Tokens

4.5. Ensuring sustainability of The Insureum Foundation

2

31

32

5.0. Timeline

34

6.0. ISR Token

36

6.1. Terms & Conditions Summary

36

6.3. Use of proceeds

39

6.2. Insureum (ISR) Token Offering Event

37

6.4. Governance

40

6.6. What is KYC and why is it needed?

42

6.5. Ethereum-based coin

41

7.0. Team

44

8.0. Advisors

48

9.0. Partners and supporters

52

10.0. References

54

Zikto Inc. is a Korean startup company, ranked by Forbes as a
top-10 Korean startup in 2017. Zikto first started as a wearable
device brand in 2014. In 2017, Zikto extended its business to develop ‘The Challenge’, a multiple IoT device integration platform.
Currently, Zikto is partnered with several Korean insurance and financial conglomerates, including KB Financial Group, Kyobo Life
Planet, and SK Planet, in connection with the development of a
new protocol called Insureum, designed to eventually disrupt the
existing insurance industry by leveraging blockchain technology.
Insureum, a combination of Insurance + Ethereum, is the cryptocurrency that will be used in their Insureum Protocol. Zikto Pte. Ltd. will
be carrying out the Insureum token sale as described in this Whitepaper. Further information on Zikto Pte. Ltd. is available below.

3

1.0. Abstract / Intro
Despite the insurance industry’s success over the last 30
years, it has never been a technology leader. Finally, with
the Insureum Protocol, the insurance value chain will
become cost efficient and simple, and create larger value
in the insurance industry by enabling transactions between
stakeholders. Insurance companies, policyholders and 3rd
parties alike can all make transactions according to their
own competencies, and all excess value (created from the
transactions) is shared based on their contribution.
Zikto started negotiations with insurance and financial
institutions in 2015, concerning the gathering and
processing of lifecycle data. It was these new connections
that led Zikto down the path toward changing their focus as
a company.
The Zikto team realized that a lot of players in traditional
finance-based sectors have a strong initiative to understand
their current and potential customers. A data-gathering
intermediary can be a real asset for these sectors to
understand their target audiences. With reliable data, they
can develop better products that are customized, digitalized
and more cost-efficient.
However, it is very difficult and costly for these sectors to
gather this data by themselves. It requires a significant
investment of time and money to develop and integrate
such a system, market it to the public, manage the data
gathering processes, and analyze it. The Challenge, Zikto’s
data integration platform, bridged the gap nicely by
providing data and analysis gathered from various smart
devices. Zikto secured a number of sales agreements and
ongoing negotiations with global insurance companies, as
The Challenge offered a good value-for-price. As just one of
millions of app developers, Zikto ultimately decided to side
with the win-win monetization strategy of adjusting their
focus to the processing and integration of data.
Now, Zikto is expanding the idea of data sharing to another
level: developing a protocol to facilitate the transactions. It
will promote more stakeholders in the traditional insurance
industry, benefiting all. Insurers will find easier ways to
gather data, users and policyholders will have access

4

FIG 1. How Insureum will change the insurance industry landscape

5

to better insurance products, and third parties like app
developers and sales agencies will find optimal ways to
monetize their services and products.
The Insureum Protocol is a new blockchain-based insurance
ecosystem that seeks to connect insurers, their customers,
and developers. It is designed to assist insurance companies
in tailoring insurance policies to individual lifestyles to
provide unique incentives for customers. Zikto’s vision is
for the Insureum Protocol to create the conditions through
which many new insurance products attractive to people
under the age of forty are developed.
1.1. Background
How can traditional, slow moving insurance companies
create new cost-efficient processes and adapt to constantly
changing market demand? Decentralization via blockchain
technology will give these companies a way to outsource
costly manual processes like gathering and analyzing data,
and avoid falling behind.
Insurance companies are facing drastic changes to the state
of the market and its fundamental structure. While other
industries adopt and adapt to global digitization trends,
the conservative insurance industry is losing ground. Their
growth has slowed hand-in-hand with the market due to
a rapidly aging population and the changing lifestyles of
new generations. Meeting the needs and wants of younger
demographics is extremely challenging because of a lack
of data and poor capability to deeply analyze it. Globally,
a number of insurers are already providing data and
digital-driven healthcare services to their policyholders to
reduce the cost from claims. For example, the international
Medolution programme supported by the National
Research Council of Canada ↗ is based on the idea of using
digitization to reduce costs ↗, while improving patient
quality of life. The Canadian Government’s ‘Smart Health’
program ↗ is similarly based on the idea of reducing costs
with digitization.

▫

▫
▫

6

Despite the emerging market, there is a global trend of
reduced growth in the insurance industry. This is mainly due
to stagnancy in advanced markets such as the US and other
developed countries including Germany, UK, and Australia,
which are expected to see less than 1.5% growth through
2018. The non–life insurance market is forecasted to see a
lower growth rate compared to the life insurance market,
but the overall trend is almost identical in both markets.
As a result of insurance companies’ poor access to data and
inability to deeply analyze the data they do have, customers
are stuck with limited options from insurance providers
who present them with insurance plans which are not 100%
suitable for their individual needs.
About 30 years ago, the insurance industry experienced an
age of innovation. New investment-linked products appealed
to a wider range of customers. But since then, the only
major innovations in the insurance industry have been the
ability to compare plans and shop online. Insurance policies
have remained largely the same with entrenched and
standardized packages which are not tailored for individual
lifestyles. Because of this, insurers are having a hard time
attracting buyers in their twenties and thirties, as they do
not find insurance offerings attractive. Even those who do
consider buying insurance discover that their lifestyles are
not well-matched with available insurance plans. These
groups may avoid making an insurance purchase and may
put off retirement planning as something to look into in
another decade. Millennials also find that there is no clear
way to subscribe to specific policies they want. For example,
a car owner who only commutes less than 5 miles per day
would not want to purchase the same insurance policy
that their neighbor subscribes to, which covers more than
100 miles of driving per day. The traditional insurance
products, by their nature, are not designed to cover different
individual needs and wants.

7

FIG 2. Total market growth forecast of
non-life insurance market by country, 2014 - 2018 13

FIG 3. . Total market growth forecast of life
insurance market by market, 2014-2018 13

FIG 4. Global Insurance Market Index by quarter, 2012 - 2017
(Q1 2012 as baseline (1.0) 13

8

Life insurers, for instance, have until now relied on actual
medical data to create the actuarial tables their plans are
based on. The problem is that this information is hard to
get a hold of, as doctors and medical institutions are rightly
reluctant to provide sensitive patient records. The lack of
such information is even tougher for smaller companies who
want to enter the scene but have no relevant data to rely on
when creating their protection plans.
For auto and other non-life insurances, there’s a virtually
endless stream of user data available online, but very little
of it provides insight that is useful to insurers in connection
with the creation of new insurance products for a new
generation of customers.
After insurance policies are created and marketed, they go
through a lengthy process known as underwriting before
they come into force, where the insurance provider decides
whether to issue the insurance policy to the customer.
Between underwriting and making a claim, insurance
companies, inspectors and customers may waste time and
money in making sure that claims are valid and fraud-free.
FIG 5. Increase in mobile initiatives of different
stakeholders in the insurance industry, 2011 - 2016 13

9

It is extremely challenging (and expensive) for insurance
companies to be agile and create their own platforms to
collect necessary data to speed up product creation and
underwriting. Especially considering the fact that there are
plenty of platforms with almost identical purposes (e.g.,
mobile applications and websites), acquiring and retaining
users on their own platforms is more difficult than it seems
to be. Furthermore, policyholders are reluctant to give away
their personal information without any incentive.
Due to the difficulties stated above, currently, most
insurance companies process their value chains manually.
Customers are paying high premiums to insurance
companies partly due to these poorly-managed value chains.
According to reports published by McKinsey & Company,
these costs can be reduced by 30% by automating and
digitizing the processes.
At the same time, there are a lot of services collecting user
data but not effectively monetizing it. Many individual app
developers use advertising as a monetization strategy, which
is renowned to be the least effective, according to a survey
by Combo App 13. If they can successfully monetize the
acquired data in mutually beneficial way, it will be a gamechanger for them.
FIG 6. Most common monetization strategies for apps

10

2.0. Summary of The Insureum Protocol
The Insureum Protocol bridges the technology gap between
the insurance industry, 3rd party developers (Applications &
IoT), and policyholders.
Unlike manually managed value chains, the Insureum
Protocol uses blockchain technology to create a
decentralized ecosystem which connects insurers, their
policyholders, and third-party developers, and seeks to
provide access to a plethora of individually anonymous, but
demographically identifiable data. The premium paid will
enrich the total value creation of the industry. Furthermore,
the created value is shared based on each stakeholder’s
contribution.
In recent years, adjacent industries (finance and healthcare)
have been seeking new ways to access customer data. In
the insurance industry, IoT, wearables and other smart
technology can give highly relevant information about
customers to insurance companies that can help them tailormake plans and create insurance products which appeal to
potential customers.
FIG 7. Main stakeholders in the Insureum Protocol

11

For example; GPS and telematics tracking can inform
insurance companies how fast someone drives, or suggest
that a driver who regularly drives for long periods should
schedule more breaks. Other technologies may track
how often they go rock climbing, cycling, etc. Insurance
companies could also determine the amount of steps taken
during a normal day as one measure of health.
Within the Insureum protocol ecosystem, insurers, their
policyholders and third-party developers can exchange
blockchain-based tokens called Insureum to buy and sell
anonymized data. Insurers will receive the data they want
and have the opportunity to develop totally new or even
better types of insurance products, especially for usagebased insurance segmentation. Developers are incentivized
to connect apps to the Insureum Protocol to receive
Insureum, and policyholders are rewarded for sharing their
anonymized data.
The value of the Insureum Protocol is described below. The
value to any particular stakeholder may vary depending on
the future development of the Insureum Protocol and other
factors. However, Zikto plans to ensure the main idea of
Insureum-incentivized data-sharing will be actualized in the
following ways during the first stage.
FIG 8. China InsureTech segments, key players and market size forecast by 2020 13

12

2.1. Policyholders
The Insureum Protocol gives policyholders more power
to choose plans that perfectly match their lifestyles by
providing insurers with diversified data, even though such
plans will not be purchasable through Zikto or marketed via
the Insureum Protocol, at least at the initial stage. However,
we have plans to serve as a free marketplace for insurance
products in the future after acquiring the proper regulatory
license. When policyholders choose to share data, they are
rewarded by being able to trade and earn cryptocurrency
(Insureum). They could, at a later stage, perhaps also
save time and effort when making claims, as most of the
processes would be automated by utilizing smart contracts
on the blockchain.
By its fit-for-all nature, consumer insurance products cannot
meet the needs of the various individual policyholders.
With the Insureum Protocol, policyholders will be able
to purchase customized insurance products such as (for
example) pet insurance, car insurance only for long-distance
driving, real estate insurance only during the holiday season,
cybersecurity insurance and others for a more reasonable
price. Secondly, the data that they currently share for free
will be made more valuable. Data users (insurers and other
third parties) will reward the policyholders (and other
data providers like app users) for the data with Insureum.
Considering that there is currently almost no reward for the
data, this will dramatically impact perspectives on the value
of the data.
Imagine an insurance policy that rewards you if you hit
metric goals like walking 10,000 steps per day. Or if you’re
a safe driver and don’t slam your brakes in traffic, you’ll be
entitled to a discount.
2.2. Insurance companies
Insurance companies will be able to create mini ecosystems
that contain in-house or third-party apps that accurately
gather and analyze the real data of (potential) policyholders.
Within these ecosystems, cryptocurrency is exchanged

13

between developers and insurance companies, and can
be used to buy and sell anonymized data to develop and
manage customized product offerings.
Being able to identify fraud by cross-referencing transactions
on the blockchain could also help insurance companies to
save time and money when it comes to underwriting and the
claims process.
2.3. Developers
Currently, many of the apps that gather user data via IoT
devices don’t appear to have proper business models
through which they may easily and quickly monetize this
data. Using Insureum and The Insureum Protocol, app
and API developers may be able to create and maintain a
variety of new programs based on requests from insurers.
The Insureum Protocol could be used by both insurance
companies and developers to exchange apps and/or data in
a turnkey ecosystem, with limited difficulty and costs due to
transactional or trust issues, as all transactions will be based
on Insureum and on a blockchain.
2.3.1. The Challenge
In 2015, Zikto launched its ‘Zikto Walk’ wearable, which
became incredibly popular among insurance companies
looking to gather data about people’s lifestyle habits. Using
what it learned, the Zikto team shifted its focus to providing
data aggregated from multiple health apps to insurance and
financial companies. This data presently feeds into a Ziktodeveloped platform called ‘The Challenge’. ‘The Challenge’
is a mobile marathon platform which tracks activity from a
range of wearables and applications via an API and seeks
to build financial products for insurance and financial
companies.
In 2017, The Challenge was adopted by KB Card, one of the
largest financial conglomerates in Korea, with the world’s
first activity-based reward platform for credit cards. Users of
KB Kookmin Card receive rewards when achieve the goal of
walking 10,000 steps per day. The card has been successfully

14

adopted by the users, and sold more than 23,000 by March
2018.
The Challenge platform will be leveraged in order to
kickstart and maintain the Insureum Protocol.
Currently, setting up an API and platform that collects
wearable data from different manufacturers (e.g., Nike,
Apple or Fitbit) would cost roughly $2–3 million (based on a
rough estimation by a local insurance company), according
to an insurance industry expert. Using ‘The Challenge’
platform instead, insurance companies now only need
to pay an average of 70¢ per customer, per month. ‘The
Challenge’ will also be an efficient option for insurers who
want to develop activity level–based insurance and refer to
specific PHRs (Personal Health Records), but don’t have their
own platform.

▫

FIG 9. The Challenge card with KB Kookmin Card ↗

15

2.4. Third parties
All the stakeholders who are connected to the insurance
value chains will be able to join the protocol and share the
value as the protocol will cover all value chains from product
management to claim management.
Third party stakeholders include, but not limited to: app
developers who develop apps/services to gather data from
users by insurers request; database providers who store
users’ lifecycle data; GAs who act as external sales agencies
for the insurers; inspectors for the claim management
process; and freelance underwriters.
The database providers can also participate as a distributed
database provider since the transactions among the
stakeholders will mostly be data-heavy. In sales and
marketing, an external salesforce (GA: general agents) will
“outsource” sales of the insurance company, collaborating
with the internal salesforce. For claim management, external
inspectors can provide inspection service for the claims
requested from the policyholders. In the later stages, we
project that the underwriting and risk management can
be partially outsourced to external underwriters and risk
assessors.
All transactions will be based on blockchain technology,
leading to less (if not zero) transaction costs and more
efficient value distribution.

16

3.0. Changes to Value Chains with the Insureum Protocol
Traditional insurers appear to lack any significant
capability to develop digital-based products for emerging
needs, like usage-based or digital insurance products,
as such development requires more diverse data from
policyholders. As shown in the diagram above, insurers
lack communication with their users, especially during the
product management process of their value chain. This is
mainly because of their old-fashioned product development
models. Insurance products are not well-aligned with the
changing needs of the customers, especially for those in
younger age groups.
FIG 10. Value chain and transactions with users/policyholders
of traditional insurance companies

17

The existing value chain makes it challenging for insurers
to lower the prices of insurance products. Most processes
are manual and human-based, which leads to high
operating costs. Insurers want to obtain the capabilities of
process automation and data processing to cut costs, but
these digitization and automation improvements require
intensive investments of time and money. Furthermore,
it is challenging to acquire and retain consumers on their
platforms (mobile apps and websites) even if they manage
to develop their own in-house platform. Users are reluctant
to use a variety of platforms developed by different parties,
not only those of insurers but also those of other app
developers. Also, according to the report 13, the outdated
underwriting process results in additional time and costs,
and undermines insurance sales.
FIG 11. Value chain and transactions with users
and 3rd parties in the Insureum Protocol

18

On top of this, the traditional value chain has little room
for other 3rd party players to participate, as most existing
processes are centralized, performed solely by the insurer.
Currently, insurers develop their own data-gathering apps
even though there are external applications and platforms
available. Part of the reason for this inefficiency is that
the internal systems are designed for centralized use by
insurers.
Policyholders are directly affected by this. Almost all
insurance products are still developed in the same way as
they were in the 1980’s due to a lack of ability to develop
digital insurance products. Smaller, niche-targeted insurers
(e.g., P2P insurers) offer more customized insurance
products, but are not able to reach the general public. Also,
prices are increasing across the board, leading to customer
dissatisfaction. 13
The Insureum Protocol is an ecosystem designed to resolve
the problems described above. By decentralizing the value
chain processes of insurers, more value can be created both
from larger sales and lower costs. Insurers, 3rd parties,
and users can share the created value according to their
contributions to it.
The overall processes will be executed on the Insureum
Protocol in three phases, focusing on each value chain
process in each phase in order:

19

3.1. Phase 1: Product Development
Insurers can buy user data, developers can gather and
analyze the data based on insurers’ requests, and users can
sell their data using the Insureum Protocol. Insurers can
gather users’ lifecycle data to develop more customized,
usage-based insurance products. Developers can gather
and analyze requested data with their pre-developed or
on-demand solutions. Users can easily sell their lifecycle
data using developers’ solutions and get rewarded with
Insureum.
FIG 12. Transaction of insurers, users and 3rd parties
in the product development process

20

Insurers can develop more custom digitized insurance
product offerings using their users’ data and developers’
analytics (e.g., sleep cycle, daily walking distance,
menstruation cycle) by requesting specific data and analytics
to target users and developers. This will also be very useful
for renewal-based insurance products, such as annual
vehicle insurance. Currently it takes about 3 months to
sync accident data due to the data-gathering and analytical
processes from multiple entities and adjust the premium for
the following period. With blockchain-based real-time data
syncing, mismatches and inefficiencies would dramatically
decrease. Insurers can properly acquire and use specific
data with owners’ consent.
Under the EU GDPR Act (https://www.eugdpr.org/) which will
be enforced from May of 2018, all personal data collected
and used by organizations active in EU should either be
discarded or properly purchased from the owners. The
Insureum Protocol can be of obvious assistance in ensuring
data is collected legally and morally in Europe.
Developers, such as smart phone application and web
service developers, can use or modify their products and
services to gather requested data. In most cases, insurers
will directly contact a specific developer whose product/
service has the desired target user base and type of data,
such as ‘active 20-30s’ or ‘wearable device users’. The
developer will then use their existing product/service to
gather or sort out the required data. For example, if an
insurer enquires about 20-30s women’s sleeping cycle data
for a new project development, the developer of a sleep
cycle tracking app (e.g., Sleep Cycle, Lark, Apple Health) can
sort out 20-30s women’s data and provide it to the insurer
with the users’ consent.
Users can sell their lifecycle data to developers and insurers
in a more transparent, legitimate way. As general awareness
grows about how their personal data is used, users will be
more eager to learn how their data is used, who uses it, and
finally be compensated accordingly.

21

The contract used in this process will make sure that data
has been successfully created and sent by the DApp, as well
as maintaining its integrity. Users and those who request
their (anonymous) data can exchange the data for Insureum
in a secure and decentralized ecosystem. DApp developers
will also receive Insureum in return for adding value to the
network by hosting the DApp on the platform.
Critical information such as creation date, duration, creator
and data hash value will be stored in an Ethereum chain.
However, the actual data can be stored in distributed
storage by the platform provider until the contract is closed.
This is to save gas and create an efficient network while
maintaining the benefit of using a public chain.
Anyone who requests data can always verify its integrity
by checking the data hash value on the Ethereum chain.
The data can be trusted, regardless of how many times the
owner of the data changes, since there is no way to alter the
original data.
The diagrams below show the transaction’s underlying
processes within the product development value chain:
3.1.1. Data purchase
Data platform or insurance companies with Insureum tokens
will reward the end-users for collecting data necessary to
create new insurance products. Users may spend Insureum
tokens within the Insureum-enabled data platform, and they
may also use Insureum tokens to pay insurance companies
for their service or premiums.
3.1.2. Product development
Insurance and data platform companies will collaborate
together on the Insureum Protocol to utilize the blockchain
technology to create new types of insurance products. In
addition, any InsureTech companies from other value chains
can also contribute to create and distribute the insurance
product.

22

3.1.3. Value distribution
All premiums and rewards can be paid by Insureum tokens,
and it is encouraged to stick with Insureum to enjoy the
benefits of the blockchain ledger. (They may of course
still pay for their premiums with fiat currency as well.) In
addition, general agencies, financial planners and even
customers can make referrals to get rewards within the
protocol.

23

3.2. Phase 2: Sales and marketing
Insurers can leverage external sales agencies (GA; general
agents), to pinpoint the target consumers. They can also
work with GA in the Insureum Protocol and utilize an
optimal commission scheme using the blockchain. With
smart contracts, commissions can be automatically paid to
the GA according to the number of products sold and the
duration the product was activated for. GAs can access a
targeted user pool based on big data analysis. Users can sell
their lifecycle and insurance data to receive ISR as a reward,
and use the ISR (or even fiat currency) to purchase custom
usage-based digital insurance products.

FIG 13. Transactions of insurers, users and 3rd parties
in the sales and marketing process

24

Users can also share insurance data starting in phase 2,
including what type of insurance products they have and
their duration of policy activation. With this data, insurers
and GAs can effectively understand their target users by
demographic or other metrics. This will help them optimize
their sales process, from segmentation and customer
targeting to actual sales and performance evaluation. The
Insureum Protocol will provide required data analysis so
insurers and GAs can leverage the full potential of the data.
Insurers can optimize their internal salesforce by having
two separate and easily-assessable sales channels: internal
salesforce and GAs. Their internal salesforce can utilize the
protocol’s user pool to reach their optimal target market
and analyze sales performance, which will help improve
their overall sales efficiency. Also, the insurers can efficiently
expand their target market by collaboration with the GAs.
This process will reward GAs who successfully deliver on
their contract with the end user. Distribution is one of the
key factors to successfully launch an insurance product,
and Insureum rewards GAs in the same manner it works in
the real world. At this point, users will pay their insurance
premiums, and pre-defined portions will be transferred to
the GA as per commission schemes when certain conditions
are met.
Since smart contracts can store transaction data virtually
forever, commission schemes will be more reasonable in
the Insureum Protocol. GAs can receive commissions the
whole time the insurance policy is active. This will benefit
both the GA and insurer simultaneously. The GA will be
encouraged to ensure the insurance policy is active as long
as they can to receive the maximum commission. Under
the current commission scheme, a GA’s goal is to keep the
insurance policy active for only two years in order to collect
the maximum commission of the policy holding.
The majority of the data will be stored in the Ethereum
network. Detailed information will be encrypted with the
owner’s private key. The insurer will have read permission of
the contract by default.

25

3.3. Phase 3: Claim management
Insurers and inspectors can also automate the claim
management processes. Users can also easily provide data
and receive insurance benefits by using the automated
service. Insurers can receive validated data from inspectors
collected from IoT and digital devices. It is then used to
manage claims requested by the users. Once validated, the
smart contract can automatically pay policyholders using
ISR. Fraud risks and transaction and contracting costs are
minimized with blockchain and smart contracts.
FIG 14. Transactions of insurers, users and 3rd parties
in the claim management process

26

Whenever a policyholder files a claim, the smart contract
will automatically initiate and check if the conditions are
met. If they are, users will be instantly paid and the platform
provider will also be rewarded for facilitating the data
and Insureum exchange. However, there may be cases
when inspectors are required. Peer evaluation or even a
professional inspector can also add value to the network,
and they will be rewarded for their efforts.
And even in cases where a human inspector is required,
the whole messy process of underwriting is cleaned up by
keeping data neat and tidy on the blockchain. The decisionmaking process becomes much more time and energyefficient, resulting in dramatic financial savings for insurers
and speedier claim filing for policyholders. Everybody wins.
When making a claim, policyholders and inspectors don’t
need to use third party data centers to exchange data about
a claim. A direct line into accurate and secure information
will save both parties time and money.
Smart contracts tied to P2P insurance schemes are protected
from fraud. As all data and transactions are recorded on the
blockchain, inspectors have much less room for error and
can quickly pay out any owed contracts.
3.4. Use Cases
Since the blockchain is a newly-adopted technology, there
will be a variety of new insurance products leveraging it in
the near future. Listed in this section are four insurance
product types that are most compatible with blockchains
and expected to be available within the next 3 years.
3.4.1. Micro insurance (Short-term, specific coverage)
Policies can be instantly taken out and recorded on the
blockchain. This is especially useful for young people who
are travelling or about to engage in high risk activities
like rock climbing or hang gliding. They can subscribe to
activity-based, short-term insurance specifically designed for
such activities. With this type of micro insurance, younger
generations who were not previously interested in being
insured would be more open to the idea of becoming so.

27

3.4.2. Usage-based insurance (UBI)
UBI is based on the idea to match the premium with the
exact value of the insurance product. The idea itself is
well-known. For example, let’s say you have car insurance
but don’t drive a lot. With UBI, customers will only pay for
what they use and get reimbursed for being outstanding
customers. ‘Third generation UBI’ telematics inside your
car check how you drive (braking hard, swerving) and will
reward you if you drive safely. Even ‘risky’ elderly drivers can
get access to lower premiums if they can prove they are still
actually good drivers.
3.4.3. Risk prevention
Transactions and data from wearables are secure and totally
decentralized. This means that no one party is responsible
for the surveillance of the majority of the data. The claims
industry is incredibly risk-prone and spends over $2 billion
a year to identify fraud. The security of the blockchain is the
killer app here. Nobody can lie, and everything is there for
everyone to see. Still, that does not mean that the data itself
is open to everyone; all the data is protected by encryption
with a hash function, but the transactions will be recorded
and visible to everyone.
3.4.4. Personalized insurance / P2P insurance
P2P (peer-to-peer) insurance is a risk-sharing network
where a group of associated or like-minded individuals pool
their premiums together to insure against a risk. Peer-toPeer Insurance mitigates the conflict that inherently arises
between a traditional insurer and a policyholder when an
insurer keeps the premiums that it doesn’t pay out in claims.
This will be more realistic especially with the blockchain,
since all the transactions will be open and the data sharing
and processing will be automated.
Also this will dramatically reduce the inefficiencies from the
underwriting process, which is time consuming and costly.
Insurance companies have traditionally had to go through a
lengthy and expensive underwriting process. The blockchain
has eliminated this process almost entirely. Now, plans can
be securely created, reviewed and delivered to customers
rather than waiting for pricing, underwriting and inspectors.
28

4.0. Insureum Token Dynamics
Thanks to smart contracts on the blockchain, payments
can be immediately issued once certain parameters are
met. This is something that was impossible before without
lengthy review processes.
FIG 15. The InsureTech universe 13

29

4.1. InsureTech
InsureTech is one of the hottest areas in the insurance
industry and is a feasible solution to digitize the industry. As
the attractiveness and room for disruption of the industry is
huge due to the large market size and relatively low degree
of digitization, many InsureTechs have evolved to disrupt the
industry.
Most InsureTechs are focused on increasing and facilitating
the use of the value chain of the insurance industry, and not
disrupting it. According to McKinsey’s article “InsureTech the threat that inspires,” only 9% of InsureTech companies
are disrupting the value chain.
Despite the buzz and interest from the industry, nobody has
really asked the fundamental questions on this topic: What’s
missing, what’s next, and who will be left standing? At Zikto,
the team truly believes many of the value chain problems
and processes can be solved with public blockchain
technology. The Insureum protocol will effectively solve
the traditional problem of delayed digitization and give the
industry a chance to adopt blockchain technology.
4.2. Data value dynamics
The core premise at the heart of the Insureum token is that
all data has value and insurance companies need trusted
data.
1. Data has historically been utilized to develop insurance
products. However, real time diversified data will give the
opportunity for insurance companies to develop new types
of insurance products and give more benefits to their
customers through multiple IoT devices.
2. The more the data is used successfully, the lower the
loss ratio will be for insurance companies. The more
policyholders are verified, the more valuable the data
becomes.

30

3. When each source of data contains more layered and
cross-verified data, the value of the total data set increases.
This allows for the implementation of dynamic pricing for all
insurance packages using IoT products.
4.3. Insureum Tokens
The Insureum token is a tool used by nodes / participants
to access the value chain and create disruptive insurance
products. Consumers can pay their premiums with
cryptocurrency at any insurance company.
Insureum will employ a digital token to manage incentives
and payments for all nodes across the insurance industry
value chain. This token will be an integral part of the
economy concerning data sharing, validation, rewards,
and payment for product development on the Insureum
protocol. Nodes and participants will be rewarded each time
their data is used for analytics purposes or when revenue
is generated by insurance product sales from the insurance
companies.
4.4. Strategies to boost adoption
A big question behind many utility tokens is: How do I make
sense of the early adoption cycle and make sure the tokens
are usable and have utility in their industry?
Since Zikto is in the early stages of the widely-adopted
blockchain technology, the team knows insurance
companies and 3rd party platforms will be hesitant to
enter into a tokenized economy. For this reason, Zikto has
developed incentivizing strategies to jump-start the value of
the Insureum token in the market:
1. For 3rd parties: Zikto will create an optimal commission
scheme for general agencies and financial planners to sell
products created for the Insureum protocol, as described in
section 3.2.

31

2. For insurers: Zikto will allocate 15% of the ISR tokens for
promotions to join the protocol. However, the ISR will be
locked in for one year (selling this ISR on an exchange will
be prohibited for this duration), and it can only be used to
reward users and purchase data from 3rd parties.
3. For users: Customers can pay their premium payments
with ISR tokens granted by insurance companies.
These strategies will create a system of immediate adoption
into the ecosystem and strengthen the value of token at the
exchange.
4.5. Ensuring sustainability of The Insureum Foundation
The core value of a decentralized ecosystem is the lack of
any central entity controlling or influencing transactions
within the ecosystem — with this structure, the foundation
needs a sustainable cash flow structure to manage and
maintain the sustainability of the protocol. Cash inflows
will be invested into managing issues like influential
inflation or deflation, ambiguous or harmful behaviors
from stakeholders, or extreme cases like illegal use. Zikto
has allocated 15% of the total fund as a reserve pool to
effectively manage potential risks.
The Insureum Protocol will implement a dynamic fee
scheme, which will be integrated into the protocol based
on: 1) the amount of ISR and data transferred, and 2) the
maturity of the product. The key takeaway of keeping the fee
structure dynamic is to prevent transactions on the protocol
from becoming too expensive or complex. By only imposing
fees for transactions with large amounts of data and value,
the protocol can attract a much larger range of stakeholders,
including less influential stakeholders (less capital, data,
etc.) to execute transactions on the protocol. Even for
large companies, the fees will still be cheaper than overall
transaction and contract costs compared to traditional
transaction methods. Furthermore, as fees will be imposed
to ‘well-performing’ products/services that survive long
enough and generate sufficient profits, the stakeholders

32

who benefit the most from the protocol/ecosystem will be
the ones who pay. Also, no stakeholders will need to pay any
fees during the first few years, since maturity is calculated
on a yearly-based.
Another monetization tool is the customization that smart
contract templates offer. Basic features will be provided
without any cost to stakeholders, though in the event
a transaction has complex requirements, stakeholders
will have a need for more specific and customized Smart
contracts. The stakeholders can either revise the contract
directly (if they have enough internal resources with
blockchain expertise) or can request an update or upgrade
(which will be cost-efficient in most cases as very low fees
will be offered).
The details on fees described above will be fine-tuned along
with the development of the Insureum Protocol.

33

5.0. Timeline
The team has been hard at work on The Insureum Protocol
ICO project since October 2017. They’ve already raised
$5.2M USD in seed and Series A funding and secured a
5-year contract with KB Kookmin Card(국민카드), one of
Korea’s largest credit card companies. In addition, the team
was listed by Forbes in 2017 as one of 10 up-and-coming
Korean startups to watch for.

FIG 16. Timeline of the Insureum Protocol

34

2017. 4. 1
2017. 5. 1
2017. 6. 1
2017. 10. 16
2018. 5

2018. 3Q
2018. 4Q
2019. 2Q
2019. 4Q
2020
2020 3Q
2021

Launch of ‘The Challenge’ (Integrated step count 		
platform for wearable devices and smartphones)

Operation of blockchain-related pilot project with SK
Telecom, CoinPlug, Daily Intelligence (ICON)
5-year contract to provide step count data to KB 		
Kookmin Card
Completion of first draft of the white paper
Public Token Sale(not held)

Partnerships with insurance companies to develop
blockchain-based insurance products

Deploy MVP for Insureum protocol interface to 		
expand scope of gathered data
Launch Insureum Platform (phase 0) and implement
strategies to gather main players (insurance 			
companies, users, 3rd parties)
Start Phase 1, focus marketing on DApp developers,
distribute smart contract templates

Start Phase 2, focus marketing on sales agency (GA),
develop optimal sales commission scheme

Start Phase 3, focus marketing on inspectors, 		
connect to IoT devices
Pilot test underwriting automation, start discussion
on Insureum Protocol expansion

35

6.0. ISR Token
Insureum (ISR) is a fixed supply of tokens that will be
issued during the token creation. No more tokens will
ever be created. Our potential investors may participate
with Ethereum (ETH) and investors may access tokens by
following the “ISR Token Sales Terms & Conditions”.

6.1. Terms & Conditions Summary
Token: Insureum (ISR)
Total number of tokens: 297,000,000 ISR
Number of tokens offered: 193,050,000 ISR
Currency accepted: ETH Only
Fixed Price: 1 USD per 10 ISR
Duration:
-Presale: 00:00 May 30, 2018 (UTC)
-Public sale: June 2018 (UTC; to be announced)
Special Condition: Token sales will close early if target
amount is reached
Offering Details:

36

Topic

Detail

Insureum Token

● Insureum (ISR) is a smart contract
digital protocol that satisfies the
payment requirements of insurance
ecosystem between consenting parties
within the Insureum Protocol.

The Issuer

● ZIKTO PTE. LTD., A Singapore based
private limited company.
● Major shareholders: Ted Kim & David
Suh, who both co-founded ZIKTO Inc.
(Korea) & ZIKTO Corp (USA).

Rights

● No voting or membership rights in any
Zikto entity.
● No revenue sharing, dividends, equity,
& etc in any Zikto entity.
● No governance rights with respect to
the Insureum Protocol or any related
project.

Refunds

● None

Listing

● Exchange partners
(Targeting: 3Q 2018)

6.2. Insureum (ISR) Token Offering Event
65% of the tokens will be available to public investors. 15%
will be allocated to the ISR team & advisors, and 15% will
be reserved. The remaining 5% will be allocated to the
foundation & strategic partners to maximize the impact of
our token sales event.

37

Fig 17. ISR distribution percentage by group

Please note that the percentage discussed above may vary
with the amount raised through the token sales event.
Final disclosure will be announced through the following
channels:
1.

Website: http://insureum.co

2.

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/insureum/

3.

Medium: https://medium.com/@insureum_zikto

4.

Twitter: @insureum_zikto

38

6.3. Use of proceeds
The funds will be used to accelerate the completion of
the Insureum protocol. Selected key proceeds are divided
into seven key segments: Strategy Partners, Marketing,
Technology Expenses, Reserve 1, Reserve 2, Operation
(Legal, etc.) and Business Development.
Fig 18. Fund usage percentage by key segment

- Strategy Partners: 20%
Any costs associated with the Insureum protocol expansion
which are provided to potential global business partners.
- Marketing: 15%
Marketing costs will be used to advertise the Insureum
Protocol to potential strategic partners and directly to B2C
customers. This will lead to larger network protocols with
diversified nodes and products. This also includes incentives
for early adopters described in section 4.4.

39

- Tech Expenses: 15%
This percentage will go to completing the development
of the Insureum Protocol as described in this paper. This
includes the Insureum Engine, DAPPs, the smart contract
system, security, etc.
- Reserve 1: 15%
Tokens maintained in this pool have the potential to increase
in proportion according to platform growth.
- Reserve 2: 15%
This portion will be reserved for the foundation to decide a
specific use for in the future.
- Operation: 10%
This covers regular monthly costs: legal fees, accounting,
compliance, infrastructure, outsourcing, staffing,
management, etc.
- Business Development: 10%
This covers fees associated with global expansion of the
Insureum Protocol in the future, including offices and
business development-related expenses.
6.4. Governance
Initial governance of the Insureum Protocol will be under
Zikto PTE Ltd., a private limited entity incorporated in
Singapore. Eventually, where permitted by relevant laws
and legal requirements, - Zikto plans to migrate governance
of the Insureum Protocol to a Decentralized Autonomous
Organization (DAO). However, whether this is permissible
and how this can be accomplished is uncertain and Zikto
has no obligation to carry out any such migration. In any
event, Insureum token-holders have no right or ability to
participate in the governance of the Insureum Protocol.

40

6.5. Ethereum-based coin
Insureum is an ERC20-based token. Instead of creating a
new individual node to create a blockchain, Insureum uses
Ethereum nodes and will be based on existing Ethereum
blockchains. By doing so, the Insureum Protocol can
efficiently supply the processing power (nodes) and leverage
Ethereum’s networking power and feature sets.
Insureum can take advantage of the Ethereum chain and
store critical information by using a small amount of gas.
Creating our own blockchain nodes can be inefficient for
a utility coin as it requires a huge investment in both time
and money. Therefore, by using the Ethereum network’s
processing power, Insureum has a head-start and is
equipped with a greater and more secure storage capacity.
The stored data is inherently secure and invulnerable to
even a single point of failure. Insureum will be able to
process block creation and store the data on the Ethereum
nodes.
Ethereum has two distinctive features: smart contracts and
Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs). Smart
contracts automate transactions and force them to follow
rules set by the contract. They are one of the most valuable
features of using cryptocurrency and the blockchain.
This will significantly benefit the insurance industry by
reducing costs associated with contracting and executing
transactions.
Smart contracts enable developers to create trusted
networks and help to form a decentralized ecosystem with
unknown individuals/organizations. This foundation will help
nodes to join the ecosystem.
In order to decentralize the entire value chain of the
insurance industry, Insureum suggests three types of
smart contracts: First, a smart contract can be added to
any transaction(s) based on Ethereum. When added, it will
hold a certain amount of cryptocurrency until a predefined
action is triggered. Thus, transactions will not be required
to have an intermediary (trusted 3rd party that oversees

41

and guarantees the transaction) throughout the entire
transaction processes.
This feature can be extremely useful when newly-established
parties are developing insurance products. Since smart
contracts ensure that every transaction will follow their
contract, associated issues and costs from credibility
automatically drop.
Additionally, smart contracts can work as a virtual
coordinator to disseminate rewards to the proper users
based on the amount of value they have added to product
development and sales processes. To properly use the
feature, the protocol must carefully decide which data to
store in the Ethereum public chain due to its gas price.
Since the gas price is adjusted based on the amount of data
associated with transactions, the total gas price could offset
the value of using a smart contract if there is huge amount
of data added onto the transaction.
6.6. What is KYC and why is it needed?
In order to participate in the token sale, Zikto will require
users to register for and complete a KYC (a.k.a. KnowYour-Customer) procedure. The primary objective of the
KYC check for token sale registration is to prevent money
laundering, fraud, etc.
It is important for the Zikto team to understand who future
token holders are and manage risks accordingly. Zikto takes
security very seriously and believes that for blockchain
technology to be widely adopted, it needs to be established
on a safe, secure foundation. This KYC certification is
benchmarked against standards typically adopted by banks
and global financial institutions.
Registering your KYC information is easy. Here’s what you
need:
● a photo or scan of your passport identification page
● a selfie of you holding your passport, with the ID page
open

42

● an e-mail address
● a mobile phone number
● the ETH address of your Ethereum wallet *
Just head over to our website and register on the whitelist.
Enter the required information, upload the two required
image files, and you’re good to go. Once you’ve successfully
registered, we will contact you for verification.
Investors may be whitelisted by registering their KYC
information before the presale period begins. The KYC
registration process will remain open throughout the presale
and public sale period. If there is any problem, they must resubmit the KYC registration form before the public sale ends
in order for their purchase to be valid.

43

7.0. Team
Ted Kim - Co-founder, CTO and co-CEO
He is focused on development and engineering of the
Insureum Protocol. Prior to founding Zikto, Ted worked
in the Future Device Lab at LG Electronics specializing in
machine and deep learning. Ted majored in both electrical
engineering (BA) and computer engineering (MS) at Purdue
University.
David Suh - Co-founder, CFO and co-CEO
David is in charge of the financial management, fundraising,
and business development at Zikto. Prior to founding Zikto
with Ted, David worked as a proprietary trader at Shinhan
Investment Corporation and as an Analyst at Sears Holdings.
David holds a BA of business administration from Purdue
University.
Ziggy Bak - Chief Strategy Officer
Ziggy oversees strategy and marketing. Before joining the
team, he worked as a business developer at Reddal, a global
management consulting firm, and at Crevisse & Partners,
a venture capital/incubator. He also founded a fashion
advertisement startup called Style Plugged and worked at
global consulting firms (BCG and Bain) as an intern. Ziggy
holds a BA of business administration from Korea University.
Eric Kim - Pirncipal Blockchain Engineer
Eric manages blockchain and front-end development
and software engineering for the Insureum Protocol.
Before Zikto, Eric led software development at Teleca and
Adobe. He also was a founder and manager of Node Link
Technology, an IoT startup. Eric Kim received a B.S. and M.S.
at Korea University in physics.

44

Thomas Choi - Data scientist
Thomas manages data outflow at Zikto. Thomas managed
the government project of blockchain development with
SK Telecom and Coin Plug in 2017. Before joining the team,
Thomas worked at MWN, and founded and managed a
startup company called Sentence. Thomas graduated from
Virginia Tech with a B.A and M.S in electrical engineering.
Andrew Kim(A.J.) - Front End Developer
A.J. is responsible for front-end development for the
Insureum Protocol. Before joining Zikto, he worked in
software development at KTH, Coupang, and led open
source software development of a health IT project at the
National IT Industry Promotion Agency (NIPA).
Michael Ahn - Marketing manager
Michael is responsible for overall marketing strategy at
Zikto. He worked at Streami (GoPax), one of the largest
crypto exchange in Korea and T3 Trading Group in the US
before joining Zikto. Michael holds BA in economics and East
Asian studies at Brandeis University.
Eugene Cha - Business Analyst
Eugene is responsible for marketing and financial analysis,
strategic planning, and statistical data analysis at Zikto.
Eugene received a B.A. from Cornell University and a M.Sc.
from Kumoh National Institute of Technology.
Katherine Bang - Marketing Manager
Katherine is responsible for marketing strategy and
execution at Zikto. Before joining Zikto, Katherine was an
AE at SMS Group, an event marketing agency. She has
experience of working overseas at LG Electronics and Avon
as a strategic planner and global sourcing analyst. Katherine
majored in Communications at New York University.

45

Kay Lee – Contents Marketer
Kay is responsible for creation of original content for online
and offline marketing. Before Zikto, Kay was part of the
Sales team at Johnson and Johnson Medical. Kay graduated
from Sogang University with a bachelor’s degree in Business
Administration.
Kelly Kim - UI/UX Designer
Kelly is responsible for UI/UX design at Zikto. Before joining
Zikto, Kelly was responsible for UI/UX design as the Creative
Director at Wanderlust. Kelly majored in Visual Graphic
Design for her B.A. at Seoul National University.
Jay Jung - Graphic Designer
Jay works in graphic design at Zikto. Before joining Zikto, he
developed experience in branding and editorial design at
iDuo. Jay majored in Graphic Design at Central Saint Martins
College of Arts and Design.
Hailey Son - Graphic Designer
Hailey also works in graphic design at Zikto. Before Zikto,
Hailey worked at FleishmanHillard Korea as an editorial and
graphic designer. Hailey majored in Visual Communication
Design at Ewha Womans University.
Fred Kim – Web Publisher
Fred is responsible for publishing original content and
updating web pages for Insureum. Fred majored in
Architecture and Interior Design at Kaywon University of Art
and Design.
Jenny Kang - Operations Manager
Jenny oversees overall finance and operation administration.
Prior to Zikto, Jenny managed finance and HR at Oracle
Korea, L’Oreal Korea, and InMobi Korea. Jenny received a B.A
in business administration from Monash University.

46

Newt Choi - Customer service manager
Newt manages customer service and customer orders. Prior
to Zikto, Newt worked on a Korean Air CS team and in the
pharmaceutical department of Inje University Ilsan Paik
Hospital. Newt majored in animal biology science (BA) from
Hankyoung University.

47

8.0. Advisors
Will O’Brien - Technical and strategic advisor
A veteran in the cryptocurrency and blockchain industry,
he was Founder and CEO of BitGo from 2013-2015, Limited
Partner and advisor to Blockchain Capital since 2013, and
is an investor and advisor to pioneering projects including
Civic, Orchid, Photon, Nodle, and Telegram. Will’s angel
investment and advisory portfolio spans a broad range
of sectors, and he has been featured in multiple major
media articles. Will holds a B.A. in Computer Science from
Harvard University and an MBA from MIT Sloan School of
Management.
Chanwoo Lee - Investment advisor
He is currently a professor in business administration at
Kookmin University, former CIO for NPS (National Pension
Service – world’s 3rd largest pension fund, USD 520 Billion
AUM) and former CIO for Teacher’s Pension Service, CIO for
National Credit Union Federation, CIO for Kyobo Financial
Group and many more. Chanwoo received a Ph.D. in
business administration from Kwangwoon University and
MBA from Yonsei University, bachelor’s degree in Economics
from Korea University.
Ran Neuner – Strategic Advisor
Ran Neuner is providing strategic advises for development
of Insureum Protocol. Ran is the founder of a cryptocurrency
investment company called ‘Onchain Capital’ and currently
hosts Cryptotrader on CNBC. He is a global expert in
cryptocurrency trades and investments and was ranked
the 9th most influential person among 100 in the global
cryptocurrency market according to Richtopia, English
financial online media. Ran Neuner majored in Finance for
his Bachelor of Commerce at the University of Witwatersrand
and is a qualified Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA).

48

Ismail Malik - Blockchain and media advisor
He is the Editor in Chief at ICO Crowd and he was selected
as one of the worldwide 100 most influential people in the
Crypto market. He is also a Founder & CEO at BlockchainLab.
Mr. Malik studied in Birkbeck, University of London.
Santhosh Kumaraswamy - Engineering advisor
He is the President at Mobiuso, Co-founder & CTO at
EOSNodeOne, founder at Innovation Biosciences and the
advisor to companies at Blueprint Health (New York). He
was a director at Skyscape, which was acquired by Merck.
Santhosh holds a master’s degree of business administration
from Harvard University and Boston University, and a
bachelor’s degree from the Indian Institute of Technology
(IIT Madras).
Kingsley Edwards – Blockchain advisor
He is the CEO at Block16.io, co-owner of Rogue Sports,
founder of Las Vegas Bitcoin Meetup, former VP of business
development at Unikrn and founder and CEO of Leet.
Chanki Lee - Investment advisor
He is the CPO and Co-founder at Nextmatch, former CEO at
DAYLI Marketplace and executive board member at DAYLI
Financial Group. Chanki has a Bachelor of Computer Science
from POSTECH.
Yohan John Kim - Investment advisor
Yohan is Founder and Managing Partner of NE Partners,
a blockchain startup advisory and investment company,
and is also Limited Partner of Pantera’s ICO Fund. Yohan
serves as Advisor for numerous blockchain companies and
investments in the industry, including StreamToken, Origin
Protocol, FunFair, DMarket and others. He has operational
experience as International Senior VP of eDaijia, Senior
Director of Operations & Head of Kabam KR, and Director

49

of GREE Korea. He spent time as a venture capitalist and
investment banker (Kennet Partners, TeleSoft Partners,
Citigroup Global), executing transactions resulting in over
$1B USD in value.
Yoonsup Choi - Healthcare advisor
He is the Chairman of Choi Yoonsup Healthcare Research
Center, Managing Partner at Digital Healthcare Partners,
and visiting professor at the Digital Health school of
Sungkyunkwan University. Yoonsup has a BA in computer
engineering and life science and a PhD of System
Biotechnology from POSTECH.
Sungjae Hwang - Investment advisor
Mr. Hwang is Co-founder & CEO of FoundationX, Co-founder
& Partner of FuturePlay, Co-founder & CSO of Pium, and the
former Co-founder & CPO of Fluenty (Acquired by Samsung
Electronics). He has a PhD. in HCI from the Graduate School
of Culture Technology, an MS in Computer science from
KAIST, and a Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science from
Kwangwoon University.
Chiweon Kim - Healthcare advisor
He is a Managing Partner at Digital Healthcare Partners and
Managing Director of Seoul Wise Convalescent Hospital.
Before starting his career in medicine, Chiweon worked
at McKinsey & Company. He received a PhD of Internal
Medicine from Seoul National University and a MS from the
graduate school of public health at Yonsei University.
Sungki Lim - Insurance advisor
He is a Director of the Institute of Actuaries of Korea, Team
Leader of product/actuaries and IFRS TFT at Kyobo Life
Planet Insurance. Sungki studied mathematics (BA and MS)
at Seoul National University.

50

Kwang-nam Kim – Investment advisor
He is the representative of KNK Partners and a partner
patent attorney at Ji-Myeong Patent & Law. He has 20 years’
experience in investment and intellectual properties. He
managed various kinds of private funds (AUM of KRW 300
million) at ‘Ideabridge Asset Management’. Kwangnam has
a BA and MS in electrical engineering from Seoul National
University.
Gana Oh - Medical advisor
He is a Managing Director at Oh-Gana Dermatology
Hospital, and studied at Korea University Medical School.

51

9.0. Partners and supporters
Partners

Supporters

52

Disclaimers:
This Whitepaper may be amended from time to time
without notice. This Whitepaper is intended to provide
general information and is not meant to be exhaustive,
comprehensive or authoritative. Zikto accepts no liability
in relation to the Whitepaper, or any reliance on the
Whitepaper, and does not warrant the accuracy or
completeness of the Whitepaper.
Insureum tokens may only be purchased pursuant to the
Terms of Sale of the Insureum token sale.
If any of the risks described above and/or other additional
risks presently regarded to be immaterial actually
materialise, the commercial viability of the Insureum
project and/or the Insureum Protocol may be materially and
adversely affected. These risks could result in the failure
of the sale of the Insureum token, the destruction of the
Insureum token and/or the termination of the development
or operation of the Insureum project and/or the Insureum
Protocol.

53

10.0. References
1. The future of underwriting. A transformation driven by
talent and technology.
2. Steven Bertoni, Oscar Health Using Misfit Wearables to
Reward Fit Customers. Forbes (Dec. 8, 2014). Retrieved from
https://www.forbes.com
3. Stephen O’Hearn, Jamie Yoder, Manoj Kashyap, Javier
Baixas, Jonathan Howe, Steve Davies, Ronald Sloukgi,
Salvador Nacenta, John Shipman, Xiaorong Huang, Abhijit
A Mukhopadhyay, Mathijs Kortenhorst, Anuraag Sunder.
Opportunities await: How InsureTech is reshaping insurance.
June 2016. PWC.
4. Sierra Wireless, White Paper, 2015. Capturing the UsageBased Insurance Opportunity.
5. Fitbit Benefit Guide, Jan, 2017.
6. Tanguy Catlin, and Johannes-Tobias Lorenz. (2017). Digital
disruption in insurance: Cutting through the noise. Digital
McKinsey. March, 2017.
7. Eric Ankelsaria. (2017). Digital disruption in the insurance
industry, KPMG, May, 2017.
8. Jacques Mulder, Bill Fera, Shaun Crawford, Gautam Jaggi,
Jim Costanzo, Christin Delany, Alex Jung. (2015). The future
of health insurance: A road map through change, Ernst &
Young LLP, 2015.
9. Gail McGiffin. (2015). The future of underwriting: A
transformation driven by talent and technology, Ernst &
Young LLP, 2015.
10. Walter Poetscher. (2015). Usage Based Insurance: The
New Normal, July, 2015.
11. Tanguy Catlin, Rob Hartman, Ido Segev, Ruxandra
Tentis. (2015). The Making of a Digital Insurer: The Path to

54

Enhanced Profitability, Lower Costs and Stronger Customer
Loyalty. McKinsey, March, 2015.
12. Blockchain Technology in the Insurance Sector. McKinsey
& Company. January, 2017.
13. 2018 Insurance Outlook, Deloitte Center for Financial
Services. 2017.
14. Facing digital reality, McKinsey & Company, March, 2017.
15. InsureTech Caught on the Radar, Oliver Wyman and
Policendirekt, 2017.
16. LIMRA researches on US life insurance market (20172021)
17. Global insurance review 2016 and outlook 2017/18;
Global insurance review 2017 and outlook 2018/19, Swiss Re,
2017-2018
18. International collaboration opens doors to Canadian
smart health innovations, National Research Council Canada,
Jan 2018.
19. Insurance Companies Jumping on Bio Health Market,
Hankyung Health, 2018 (http://health.hankyung.com/
article/2018022072761; in Korean language)
20. Figure 2: Swiss Re report (reference 17. Global insurance
review 2016 and outlook 2017/18; Global insurance review
2017 and outlook 2018/19, Swiss Re, 2017-2018)
21. Figure 3: Global insurance review 2016 and outlook
2017/18; Global insurance review 2017 and outlook 2018/19,
Swiss Re, 2017-2018
22. Figure 4: LIMRA US Life Insurance Sales Survey (2017),
Market Forecast (2018), Research on Mobile Initiative (2017)
23. Figure 5: Marsh: Global Insurance Market Index, Second
Quarter 2017, “Global Insurance Rates Decline for 17th

55

Consecutive Quarter”, https://www.marsh.com/us/insights/
research/global-insurance-market-index-q2-2017.html
24. Figure 8: Oliver Wyman Report, Seg 2 & 3 (Insureum
Protocol will cover both seg): http://www.oliverwyman.
com/content/dam/oliver-wyman/global/en/2016/oct/
OliverWyman_ChinaInsuretech.pdf
25. Figure 15: Based on a graphic by Venture Scanner.
26. Survey by Combo App: https://comboapp.com/
blog/2014/05/12/mobile-game-monetization-report/
27. P2P Insurance: https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/
peertopeer-p2p-insurance.asp

56

