ZEALIUM
the kiwi masternode coin
whitepaper - road map

Table of Contents
Introduction

								

Page 1

Landscape											Page 3
Comparing Proof of Work (POW) to Proof of Stake (POS)						

Page 4

What is P.O.S?											Page 6
What are Masternodes										Page 7
		Zealium POS and Masternode Requirements						Page 7
What are Zealium’s Benifits									Page 7
		Eco-Friendly										Page 7
		Social											Page 7
		Flexible and Fair									Page 8
		Fast and Reliable									Page 8
		Simple											Page 8
		Low Cost										Page 8
		Secure											Page 8
What is Architecture?										Page 8
What have we got planned?									Page 9
How will you be rewarded?									Page 11
		

Why the 1,000,000 Coin (1.25%) Pre Mine?						

Page 11

Coin Specifications										Page 12

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

INTRODUCTION

Zealium is a full-privacy, New Zealand-based Proof of Stake decentralised cryptocurrency which uses peer-topeer technology to operate with no central authority or banks. Managing transactions and the issuing of Zealium
is carried out collectively by the network. Zealium is open-source; its design is public, nobody owns or controls
Zealium and, the good thing is, everyone can take part!

New Zealand is adept at punching above its weight in many areas of technology – from Rocket Lab’s lightweight,
cost-effective commercial rocket launch services, to Weta Workshop’s award winning visual special effects and
movie props. It’s a veritable breeding ground of open-minded, resourceful, forward-thinking techthusiasts.
Indeed, given its optimal population size and relative isolation it’s a common uptake testing ground for new
products, brands and inventions. New Zealanders are bred for this type of innovation.

At Zealium, our goal is to vastly improve awareness, knowledge and understanding of cryptocurrencies within
New Zealand with a view to the eventual mass adoption of decentralised finance and trade. Our ambitions are
hefty - We want to make a decisive difference to the future of doing business in New Zealand. At the moment, for
example, there are no products here to purchase via QR Code, plus New Zealand has only 2 BTC ATM machines
nationwide. This must change. Our goal is to turn Zealium into a currency for one’s daily payments; a coin that
is not only traded for speculative reasons, but a currency that enables people to buy products and services in a
secure and quick way.

Over the past decade there has been an explosion in the demand for cashless and digital payments. Global
transaction volumes grew by 11.2% from 2014 to 2015 to reach 433 billion, an increase partially fuelled by Emerging
Asia. In the past 24 months this growth has been enhanced by the introduction of mobile contactless payment
solutions such as Apple Pay, Google Pay, Alipay and a whole host of other innovative solutions. Between 20152020, mobile proximity payment volume (such as Near Field Communication (NFC) and QR codes) is expected
to rise by a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 80 percent, which would bring mobile proximity payments
volume over US$4 trillion by 2020. Moreover, the market for peer-to-peer payment is expected to grow at its
highest rate in the next few years. The growing demand for compliance-free peer-to-peer transaction is driving
the market for crypto in the peer-to-peer segment.

We want a piece of this. Cryptocurrency transactions are compliance-free, tax-free and charge a very low processing
fee. Cryptocurrency transactions also do away with the need for certain third party inclusion such as banking
enterprises and government backed money (Fiat currencies) – in short, a truly free market. This all, in addition to
growing awareness, acts as a major factor for the growth of crypto market for peer-to- peer, and a major driving
factor behind our raison d’etre.

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

1

We believe our brand will resonate well not only with the whole of New Zealand - our indigenous Iwi, our European
population, our Pacific cousins, indeed all of the plethora of cultures that now call New Zealand home - but also
further ashore. Zealium was formed to put the benefits of cryptocurrency investing within the reach of everybody
regardless of wealth and tech know-how. Our transaction times are low, our fees are slim, we’re an environmentally
aware and responsible cryptocurrency, plus the rewards for stakeholders are many!

Zealium is currently a small team, primarily based in a small country. Being in the rather tiny minority of successful
cryptocurrency adopters within New Zealand we have only but one option to rate ourselves - The standard Kiwi
way - By default; self-qualified to succeed :)
The purpose of this document is to explain:
•• The general landscape of Crypto today
•• How POS is beneficial
•• What Zelium does differently and where it fits into the crypto realm
•• What we have planned
•• How you’ll be rewarded

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

2

LANDSCAPE:
Here follows a short history of bitcoin and the resulting rise of altcoins. It is less than 10 years since the creation
of the Bitcoin, the world’s first digital currency, which in turn was the trigger for a brand new financial ecosystem.
On 18 August 2008, the domain name “bitcoin.org” was registered. A few months later, a link to a paper authored
by Satoshi Nakamoto titled Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System was posted to a cryptography mailing
list. Nakamoto then implemented the bitcoin software as open source code and released it in January 2009 on
SourceForge. It was then that Nakamoto mined the first ever block on the chain, known as the genesis block.
Embedded in the coinbase of this block was the following text: The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of
second bailout for banks.

This note has been interpreted as both a timestamp of the genesis date and a derisive comment on the instability
caused by fractional-reserve banking. The mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto, whose identity still remains unknown,
favoured the concept of decentralisation – freedom from the shackles of traditional banking systems and large
corporations. He aimed to decentralize online banking and websites like PayPal with Bitcoin and the blockchain,
allowing for easier and more private monetary transactions.

Aside from this financial freedom, the advantages of Bitcoin over traditional fiat currencies are numerous, and
impossible for fiat currencies to match. Today a transaction between two people in different countries can still take
several days and cost the parties a significant share of the money transferred (the average cross border transaction
fee is 7.45%) as each party in the chain, of which there are many, requires a small margin for their efforts. This can
now be done in seconds using cryptocurrencies via the blockchain for practically zero cost and more securely
than ever before.

In 2016 a major rise in alternatives to Bitcoin emerged. Also known as Altcoins, these new cryptocurrencies
further decentralized the cryptocurrency community and hoped to either replace or improve upon at least one
Bitcoin component. They also caused the Bitcoin developers to continue to be innovative by introducing healthy
competition.

These altcoins tend to be application based in that they often try to fill in a gap that some feel Bitcoin does
not fill, or engage those users who do not feel that Bitcoin satisfies their digital desires. For example, the first
altcoin, created about two years after Bitcoin, was called Namecoin, and sought to, ͞decentralize domain-name
registration, which makes internet censorship much more difficult.͟ Altcoins often address simple or singular
issues of bitcoins, such as transaction speed, or the distribution method.

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

3

Some of the first ever alternatives to bitcoin were Ethereum, Litecoin and Monero. Ethereum, for example, takes
blockchain to a different level, hoping to decentralize more of the internet by using blockchain to keep the online

data of people safer, instead of in the hands of large corporations. Ethereum allows for transactions and digital
products to be exchanged using blockchain and the Ether coin. Instead of acting like Bitcoin, which wants to
replace other currencies, Ether is used as a tool to make the transactions easier.

The emergence of cryptocurrency has given birth to a worldwide financial paradigm shift closing in on a trilliondollar market cap, and growing at a phenomenal rate. Today there are over 1,000 digital currencies, and it is
estimated that by 2020 the cryptoeconomy will exceed three trillion dollars and that by 2022 it could be equal to
10% of world GDP. As such, Bitcoin’s dominance of the cryptolandscape has slowly been eroded, down from over
80% market share to just under half nowadays. Only time will tell whether these predictions are correct, but what
is certain is that cryptocurrencies have passed their point of no return. They are here to stay, and their importance
will only increase. Altcoins are sure to carve out many interesting developments in all matters of daily lives.

Comparing Proof of Work (POW) to Proof of Stake (POS)
In the traditional Proof of Work (or POW for short) model used by many cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin, network
security is provided by peers doing work. They deploy their resources (computation/processing time) to reconcile
transactions. Tokens are awarded to peers in exchange for work, with the frequency and amount varying with
each cryptocurrency’s operational parameters. This process is known as “mining”.
The frequency of block generation, which determines each cryptocurrency’s available mining reward, is generally
intended to stay constant. The mining process itself is basically a race between cryptominers to solve complicated
mathematical algorithms with cryptographic hash functions that are associated with a block containing the
transaction data. This computational frenzy verifies transactions, the authenticity of information and updates the
blockchain digital ledger. What’s more, the difficulty of calculating the hashes also scales, so every new block of
POW cryptocurrency becomes harder to mine as the work capacity of the network increases.
The cases against this methodology fall into a number of distinct categories:
•• Expense - a very high initial outlay on specialist mining technology;
•• Environmental - a heavy draw from the national grid to run these power-hungry machines leaves behind a
massive carbon footprint, as well as hardware junkyards;
•• Increased centralisation as smaller peers (those who struggle to keep up) drop out or combine their
resources into “pools”.

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

4

We will look at these main disadvantages in a little more detail now. As a Proof of Work network becomes stronger,
there is less incentive for an individual peer to support the network, because their potential reward is split among
a greater number of peers. In search of profitability, miners keep adding resources in the form of specialized,
proprietary hardware that requires significant capital investment and high ongoing energy demands. As time
progresses, the network becomes more and more centralized.

The centralisation that we are trying to avoid is exemplified by major corporations and the global banking sector.
Such institutions cause a great divide between rich and poor - less than 1% of the world’s population controls over
95% of the worlds wealth - and wield disproportionate political sway. The POW model is hardly ideal.

Bitcoin’s creator, Satoshi Nakamoto, intended for the bitcoin network to be fully decentralized, but nobody could
have predicted that the incentives provided by Proof of Work systems would result in the centralization of the
mining process. - the top five bitcoin mining pools make up 70% of the Bitcoin network’s hashing power . The
concept of decentralization is at risk of being completely lost.

Many cryptocurrencies currently also require either the use of ASIC or Application-specific integrated circuit
technology or a decent GPU graphics processing unit to provide consensus and secure transaction history,
therefore its network.

ASICs require a lot of computer savvy awareness to operate, and as with most technology they quickly become
obsolete. Moreover they also rely upon the honesty of the manufacturer. This is actually rather worrying as the
cryptosphere is very much unregulated, so manufacturers of ASIC machines are under no obligation to reimburse
you for faulty hardware or, say, a ‘lost in transit’ scenario.

On the other hand, the use of GPU graphics processing units makes matters somewhat easier for your average
entry level participation. However, purchasers of these units suffer rising prices and shortage in supply every time
a certain coins price increases quickly. Plus, if the coin involved price drops, suddenly, like ASIC units, the cost to
maintain the equipment running can become unjustifiable very quickly, and it takes a lot of knowledge to build
and also maintain a stable GPU coin mining rig to generate any real reward worth considering – So beware!

Nowdays, for you and me, the daunting entry barriers into the proof of work system makes for almost certain
income loss right away. In most cases without even having generated or mined a single Satoshi (or fraction of a
coin).

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

5

WHAT IS P.O.S ??
A central objective in the development of the POS platform was to create a secure digital currency without the
centralized dependency on a few big-time miners who participate in an energy intensive consensus algorithm
required to solve blocks. Proof of stake works by having a decentralized network or community of people that
hold physical ownership of their digital coin assets. These coins are held in personal local PC digital wallets or by
remote VPS- Virtual Private Server.

With user encryption and the “unlocking of wallets FOR STAKING” status, network user’s wallets sync in a way that
each any every staking wallet tracks and verifies the balances and transactions of all accounts simultaneously.
Whichever wallet proves verification of the current block and transactions first is then allocated a set network
specific reward (in the form of a small amount of currency in question). This is an ongoing process. All you need
to do is HODL!

POS staking does not demand the wasteful and inefficient consummation of scarce resources, nor does it entail
an associated risk in terms of hardware! It simply provides the dual benefits of securing the blockchain network as
well as creating an opportunity for users to get incentives or dividends on their holdings.

Zealium is proudly in the POS camp. Network security is governed by peers having a stake in the network. The
incentives provided by this algorithm do not promote centralization in the same way that Proof of Work algorithms
do.

So how are the rewards determined? While each individual STAKES their balance totals, in a combined sense,
this creates what is called a ‘Network Weight’. A single wallet’s individual weight then basically battles the
entire network weight for ongoing rewards. For example; If you have what is 1 weight. And the entire network
(everybody else) has say 100,000 weight, then your average reward would be expected to be approximately a
1:100,000 chance.

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

6

WHAT ARE MASTERNODES?
These are incentivised nodes that add an extra layer of security to the standard proof of stake system. Masternodes
require a user to own a pre-determined collateral amount (eg 4,000 coins). Nodes owners have a better chance
to receive staking rewards, and with this higher incentive for owners to keep their coins “locked down” this
provides the network with a more secure, decentralised eco-system. Moreover, there is less risk of a majority (or
51% consensus) attack. As people tend to HODL, or retain possession of, their coins this means the price is far less
volatile than that of POW coins for example. Masternodes are the backbone of the Zealium network.

ZEALIUM POS & MASTERNODE REQUIREMENTS.
1 x local personal PC with 2GB spare RAM, or a VPS server.
This PC must be internet connected & running [24/7 preferably] in order to be eligible for POS staking rewards.
No connection no rewards, sadly.
Download and run the ZEALIUM wallet application. Available on windows and Linux.
Encryption is highly recommended- backup password, write it down, never share, keep it secure and PRIVATE and
never lose it!!

WHAT ARE ZEALIUM’S BENEFITS?
ECO-FRIENDLY
Zealium is proudly energy efficient – Our coin uses Proof of Stake, which only consumes a fraction of the energy
used to mine using Proof of Work. So no wasted resources and energy, plus no associated hardware risk! Hurrah!!

SOCIAL
We’re sick of scam coins. We are an honest bunch, who want to create a real community - A community based
around an anonymous peer-to-peer currency. We’ve started a great social presence, and our dev team is highly
engaged and responsive. Rest assured, we’re in this for all the right reasons.

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

7

FLEXIBLE AND FAIR
We want choice. We want people to be able to choose how much other’s know; to be able to choose their level
of involvement; to be able to choose when they join and when they leave the community. Zealium, at its core, is
people-oriented. It’s Fair.

FAST AND RELIABLE
It super quick. Zealium Coin’s transactions complete almost instantly. Your transaction is guaranteed by a network
of masternodes so there’s no need to wait for numerous confirmations to enable contracts.

SIMPLE
Zealium is simple to understand. Our community shuns complicated rules and conditions. We want to be easy to
work with. Our efficient web wallet is easy to set up, and we’re always developing – increasing the user-friendliness
of our interface and seeking new opportunities.

LOW COST
We’re about bringing down the barriers to adoption. Zealium offers incredibly low transaction fees. Our aim is for
mass adoption in New Zealand, and beyond!

SECURE
Security is one of the most important principles of the Zealium ethos, and will always influence all aspects of our
development.

WHAT IS ITS ARCHITECTURE?
Zealium is based on PIVX. Our wallets are forked from their technology, based on the version 0.10 or higher Bitcoin
codebase, and have been tweaked a little and boast our own coin specs. The algorithm is Proof Of Stake only.

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

8

HOW WILL YOU BE REWARDED?
Our POS standpoint means our community reaps their rewards from staking and masternoding. Masternodes
require a 4000 NZL investment. These masternodes generate a handsome payout of 10 NZL per reward that
the masternode finds. If you have less than a masternode you can stake the coins for payouts of 4 coins per
staking reward. What’s more, there is NO minimum of coins required with POS staking. All you need to do is wait
approximately 6hrs for any newly arrived coins to ‘Mature’. That’s all. With maximum integrity in mind, the block
rewards will change over time as the coins are produced.
In order to get the most out of your staking you must keep your wallet open at all times, resulting in more constantly
available nodes, strengthening the network. No more users opening their wallet once or twice a month for a few
minutes and getting rewarded equally with those that have 24/7 uptime with their wallet.
What’s more, Zealium is all about fairness. We’d hate to see a 1%er scenario emerging, increased uncertainty with
market dumping, so we’re committed to the reward reduction philosophy. Reward reductions are needed in order
to keep the supply of a coin down thereby helping prevent market flooding. We want our community to stay
positive. This method also helps decentralization as the process takes many years to reach total supply.
Zealium block rewards will decrease at block numbers•• 500,000
•• 1,000,000
•• 1,500,000

WHY THE 1,000,000 COIN (1.25%) PRE MINE?
These coins will be used for
•• 10% to pay Zealium development team. (this equals a very small 0.125% of total supply).
•• 80% Masternode ICO Sales = 200 Nodes.

These sales will fund all platforms required to have a healthy stable tradable exchangable coin in its early stages.
(community voted choices, bare in mind exchange listing requirement factors).
That leaves 10% 0r 100,000 coins to cover unforeseen costs, including support and services.
Remaining to be airdroped and or community ideas put forward.

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

11

COIN SPECS.

Name: Zealium

Block Rewards:

•• Algorithm: POS

•• Block 0001 -1001 [1 Million Pre Mine, POW Ended
Here].

•• Total Coins: 80,000,000

•• Block 1002-500000 - MN 10 / STAKE 4 / GOV 1

•• Total Premine: 1,000,000 [1.25%]

•• Block 500001-1000000 - MN 7,5 / STAKE 3 / GOV
FUND 0,75

•• Ticker: NZL

•• Block 1000001-1500000 - MN 5 / STAKE 2 / GOV
FUND 0,5
•• Block 1500001-Infinity - MN 2,5 / STAKE 1 / GOV
FUND 0,25
•• MN Collateral 4,000 NZL
•• Staking Maturity: 6 Hrs
•• Block Time: 60 sec

ZEALIUM - THE KIWI MASTERNODE COIN - WHITEPAPER - ROAD MAP

12

ZEALIUM COIN
Masternode. Darksend.
Environmentally Friendly Proof Of Stake Cryptocurrency.
Made In NZ.

