Bitcoin Proof of Stake: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic
Cash System

Bitcoin PoS Developers
support@bitcoinpos.net
www.bitcoinpos.net

1. Introduction
Bitcoin Proof of Stake (Bitcoin PoS - BPS) is the world’s first integration of cryptocurrency’s two
foremost technological achievements — Bitcoin, and proof of stake consensus.
Today, Bitcoin core continues utilizing proof of work, a consensus algorithm that is slow,
open to 51% attacks, costly to mine, harmful to the environment, and resistant to scalability.
There are, however, many innovations unique to Bitcoin that require preservation, such as its 21
million token supply model and proven code-base developed by many of the world’s foremost
software engineers and cryptographers.
By combining Bitcoin’s strongest assets with a highly efficient, scalable, and flexible proof
of stake consensus algorithm, Bitcoin PoS introduces a new paradigm for cryptocurrency utility.
Bitcoin PoS does everything Bitcoin is currently able to do, while bringing new advances in
blockchain technology onboard, thereby updating Bitcoin for the future.

2. Mission
The world is at a crossroads. Trust in financial institutions is at an all-time low, yet the
cryptocurrency revolution kicked off by Bitcoin hasn’t materialized for the masses. After years of
opportunity, most cryptocurrency projects have failed everyday users by under-delivering on
promises and over-complicating digital assets.
Bitcoin PoS aims to pick up where Satoshi Nakamoto’s vision of a bank-less, financially
independent, and peer-to-peer electronic cash system left off. Bitcoin PoS is simple to use, scalable
to the financial uses of billions of people worldwide, secure — and most importantly, easy to
adopt for existing enterprise, payment, and retail applications.

3. What is Proof of Stake?
Consensus in Bitcoin is achieved by requiring generated blocks to contain a proof that the miner which
generated the block solved a computational hard task. Unfortunately the concept of the Proof-of-Work
(PoW) based system tends to lean towards eventual self-destruction.
Proof-of-stake (PoS) aims to replace the way of achieving consensus in a distributed system;
instead of solving the Proof-of-Work, the staker which generates a block has to provide a proof that it
has access to a certain amount of coins before being accepted by the network. Generating a block
involves sending coins to oneself, which proves the ownership. The required amount of coins (also called
stake) is specified by the network through a difficulty adjustment process similar to PoW that ensures
an approximate, constant block time.
As in PoW, the block generation process will be rewarded through transaction fees and a supply
model specified by the underlying protocol; which can also be seen as interest rate by common definition.
The initial distribution of the currency is usually obtained through a period of PoW mining. [1]

4. Problems of Bitcoin Centralization
A popular saying is If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. While many Bitcoin proponents may say that
Bitcoin isn’t broken, that perspective quickly goes out the window when framed in terms of the
future.
Owing to its current electricity-based miner-dependent design, Bitcoin encourages the
centralization of mining resources. Put simply — electricity, and the mining hardware that runs
on it — are costly resources. Additionally, mining Bitcoin requires that one possess those
resources, or ongoing access to them, in high supply.

4.1 Bitcoin PoW Creates Dependency on Electricity
Of all the resources most highly prized by Bitcoin miners, electricity correctly belongs at the top
of any miner shopping list. However, access to electricity is not uniform across all nations and
regions.
What results are electricity bottlenecks in which some geographic areas rise above others
owing to lesser or higher prices per kWh. [2] In effect, this allows miners in regions with cheaper
available electricity to monopolize the Bitcoin mining industry. Another word for monopolization
is centralization, the very specter that Satoshi Nakamoto promised to vanquish in the original
Bitcoin whitepaper.[3]
To compound the problem, governments in countries where electricity costs are high have
not recognized nor legitimized the Bitcoin mining industry in any way, meaning tax write-offs and
subsidies are out of the question. Given the unwillingness of governments to lend a hand in
subsidizing electricity costs to benefit the decentralization of Bitcoin technology, there is no
available solution to the proliferation — and profiteering — of mining cartels, the bulk of which
are located in China.[4]
Instead of averting centralization, because of its dependency on electricity, Bitcoin
rewards it. Owing to the proof of work algorithm, those who create the largest mining outfit with
access to cheap electricity can outperform, out-mine, and financially benefit above and beyond
smaller global miners — those same miners who were once the hope of creating an alternative
financial system.

“Now, the network is finding creative ways to tackle problems of mining centralization.
With an aim to break the mining hardware monopoly and bring much-needed competition, Bitcoin
Core contributor BtcDrak began a mining project, setting up an ASIC chip manufacturing
company. While some strongly oppose it, a new initiative for the Blockchain Defensive Patent
License is put forward as a way to counteract the AsicBoost patent monopoly that blocks
competition, without jeopardizing the pristine protocol. Opportunities for the use of renewable
energy are emerging as a way to decentralize mining. The idea is to take the excess capacity from
solar and hydro energy production and use them to mine bitcoin.” [5]

While there are efforts to shift this paradigm as evidenced in the above quotation, they
are still dependent on electricity, albeit from alternative sources, and will, therefore, result in more
of the same.

4.2 Bitcoin PoW Mining Hardware Centralization
The centralization of Bitcoin mining around Chinese regions is only one half of the centralization
issue. Concurrent with it is the fact that the largest Bitcoin mining hardware suppliers are all
Chinese, with titans of the industry like Bitmain and Canaan within those ranks.
How large are these organizations? Today, Bitmain is valued at or near $15 billion USD
and is backed by world-renowned banks and investors like Softbank and Tencent. [6] With backers
like these, Chinese mining hardware suppliers can essentially continue providing the crypto mining
industry with hardware virtually unimpeded.
Resultantly, the Bitcoin hash rate is heavily concentrated in areas like Sichuan, where
inexpensive and plentiful hydro-electric power and mining hardware from local suppliers create the
perfect confluence for hashrate domination.
In fact, as of December 2019, 54% of Bitcoin’s total hashrate was estimated to be from
the Sichuan province alone [7], creating an ethical quandary for Bitcoin supporters, developers, and
users that has yet to be answered.
The United States, for a time, seemed poised to challenge China for mining supremacy, or
at least for hashrate redistribution, but those hopes were dashed by US government tariffs on
Chinese imports — including mining hardware. As such, today, there is no effort on the horizon
for challenging the incumbent grasp on hashrate.
“The centralization of hashrate threatens the ultimate promise of cryptocurrency
networks: that no one party or group controls the ledger or flow of transactions,” said mining
expert Kristy-Leigh Minehan to Crypto Briefing. “Any number of natural disasters or state-level
threats could introduce network turmoil, whether through increased block times, transaction costs,
or transaction censorship at the state-level.”[8]
With hashrate locked up in a handful of geographic locations, the threat to the Bitcoin
network, and all of the value locked into it, is very real. While there may not be a central bank or
government at the head of Bitcoin, circumstances from within the regions which dominate Bitcoin
mining do hold real — and worrying — sway over the world’s largest virtual currency.

4.3 Bitcoin PoW Creates Massive Strain on the Environment
The centralized effort to mine Bitcoin places an enormous tax on the environment and is a major
contributor to global warming. A 2018 report by Nature on Bitcoin’s contribution to climate
change estimated that, with enough growth, BTC will play a major role in breaching the threshold
of 2 degrees Celsius change.[9]
While the world focuses on ways to reduce emissions, there are currently no plans in place
for creating a more environmentally friendly algorithm, or making adjustments to PoW to
alleviate environmental damage.

“The estimated emissions produced by Bitcoin last year alone is 69 million metric tons of
CO2. Mora calls the numbers mind-blowing. “That is the source of concern for us. If this
[technology] is so insignificant and the footprint is so big, can you imagine if this thing were to
take off? ” As Bitcoin gains popularity, it’s energy demands increase dramatically. “We don’t have
a single thing–not agriculture, not transportation–that we can think of that in two decades would
be enough to warm the planet by two degrees. But Bitcoin can.”[10]

Bitcoin’s adoption levels — when compared to major fiat currencies — is still very low.
Considering that, its outsized effect on the environment leads to the conclusion that should
adoption increase, its damaging dependency on guzzling electricity will also take on monstrous
consequences.

source: Nature.com
Currently, the Bitcoin network as powered by its proof of work algorithm consumes about
66.7 terawatt-hours — enough to power the entire country of the Czech Republic. By other, more
recent measures, Bitcoin even surpasses Switzerland, and is hot on the heels of medium-large
countries for energy use.[11]
While Bitcoin is a digital form of currency, meaning there is no paper involved and trees
are saved, the irony is that the power source for that digital nature has a very real effect on the
environment anyway.

4.4 Bitcoin PoW Centralization Paves Way for 51% Attack
As if there weren’t already enough drawbacks to the centralization of Bitcoin due to the proof of
work algorithm, security is another major concern. As touched upon in the previous section, the
centralization of the proof of work mining process creates an unnecessarily concentrated locus of
power for the network.
Should an event occur, whether natural, criminal, or otherwise, if it is forceful or
sophisticated enough, Bitcoin’s gathered resources will stand no chance. Of course, the possibility
with the highest chance of occurring is the famed 51% attack.
Essentially, a 51% attack refers to the possibility that a group could concentrate a
majority of the Bitcoin network’s hashrate, thus controlling the network and having the power to
falsely validate transactions. While many believe that a 51% attack of the BTC network is
unlikely owing to the financial resources needed to perform it (billions of USD — this figure
fluctuates with BTC values), it can never be ruled out.
Should the heads of various mining organizations decide to band together and pool
hashrate, it is conceivable that a 51% attack could cripple the network and effectively render BTC
useless.

Source: bitcoin.com
The Binance Academy’s statement on 51% attacks is that if one were to be performed
against the Bitcoin network, the following scenario would be likely:

“Going further, let’s imagine a scenario where a malicious entity is not motivated by
profit and decides to attack the Bitcoin network only to destroy it, no matter the costs. Even if
the attacker manages to disrupt the network, the Bitcoin software and protocol would be quickly
modified and adapted as a response to that attack. This would require the other network nodes to
reach consensus and agree on these changes, but that would probably happen very quickly during
an emergency situation. Bitcoin is very resilient to attacks and is considered the most secure and
reliable cryptocurrency in existence.“[12]

This position is misleading. What happens when network nodes are compromised, too? It
must be assumed that any attacker, or group of actors, with enough wealth, resources, and
influence to pull a 51% attack together would also be able to coerce other nodes into standing by,
or could at least disrupt the response enough to delay it and render it ineffective.
By November 2019, 74% of Bitcoin hashrate was coming from within China. There are no
reasons to believe that number has changed — and with the severity of tariffs imposed in the last
year, the likelihood of that hashrate concentration increasing are high.[14]

5. Bitcoin PoS Solves Bitcoin's Centralization Problem
The problems associated with Bitcoin’s centralization are many and have been documented in the
foregoing sections. However, Bitcoin PoS solves those problems through a novel solution —
namely, by replacing the Bitcoin proof of work algorithm with a Bitcoin proof of stake algorithm.
By replacing Bitcoin PoW with PoS, the four problems associated with proof of work that
combine to create an unnecessarily centralized cryptocurrency disappear. Bitcoin PoS is less
dependent on electricity, has a lower barrier to entry regarding hardware and is thus more
accessible and easily decentralized, is eco-friendly because of its gentle use of electricity, and is
more resilient to 51% attacks because of its decentralized-by-design architecture.

5.1 Bitcoin PoS Reduces Electricity Consumption by 99%
Let’s face it — the world is at a major crossroads when it comes to energy consumption. If we are
designing the future of currency, and if what is at stake is creating a better way to do finance,
then that way must be in line with the demands of a cleaner economy.
As such, a proof of stake consensus algorithm is the only way to go, and is the update
that Bitcoin is sorely in need of. Bitcoin PoS reduces Bitcoin’s energy consumption by 99%, a
figure that has been confirmed by the Ethereum team.
Ethereum’s well-documented move away from PoW and over to PoS was hastened in part
because of the team’s discovery that PoS represents a drastic reduction of electricity dependency.
Under the proof of stake algorithm, Ethereum developers plan to reduce blockchain energy
consumption by at least 99% [13], leaving those still using PoW algorithms to wonder why.
By reducing the need for electricity, the playing field for network validation becomes
much more even. Without having to worry about a cheap electricity source, network validators on
the Bitcoin PoS network can simply use the energy source from wherever they are. The electricity
needed by lightweight hardware for PoS validating is such that only minimal electricity is needed.
The amount of electricity it takes to run a laptop is enough — but what’s more is that in a PoS
network, validators, referred to as stakers, can delegate the task of staking to a staking pool. This
means that individual stakers can validate the network without having to actually run hardware
themselves — all the while their stake is still in their wallet as usual, thereby circumventing the
centralization of mining pools, too.

5.2 Bitcoin PoS Makes Staking Easy
Proof of work networks require miners with access to cheap electricity and expensive hardware
mining rigs. Bitcoin PoS, on the other hand, eliminates the need for a mining rig because proof of
stake networks are lightweight and don’t place excessive hardware demands on stakers.
Whereas miners are required to solve complex algorithmic equations and thus need
increasingly better hardware miners, stakers are only required to create consensus around each
transaction, and are rewarded for their effort according to their stake.
This reduces the materials threshold for would-be participants and makes it possible for
true decentralization to occur. Stakers can use normal hardware, such as a laptop or desktop
computer, or they can delegate their stake to a mining pool while retaining their staked Bitcoin
PoS coins in their wallet.
Reducing the burden on network participants is a key Bitcoin PoS design goal. The lower
the strain and demand on stakers, the higher the rate of participation, and the more decentralized
and flexible the network becomes. If the paradigm for participation requires an actor to have
immense resources, then we will only see a repetition of the hoarding of resources already present
in the world.
So, the question we must ask ourselves is — should blockchain be for the 1%? Or is
blockchain an attempt to go in the other direction and widen the scope of participation?
Fundamentally, we believe in the latter, and have designed Bitcoin PoS to encourage mass
participation.

5.3 Bitcoin PoS Is Environmentally Friendly
The future is in our hands. Anyone and everyone who has a stake in the future also owes it to
themselves to participate only in networks who understand the ramifications of using
environmentally disastrous technologies such as PoW.
As such, the Bitcoin PoS team is committed to finding better ways to do blockchain,
beginning with making Bitcoin green. For years, the profits made on Bitcoin speculation were the
only green things about it. However, now that there is an update to the network which integrates
proof of stake, investors, speculators, and network participants alike can all rejoice in the fact that
this is a form of digital currency that reduces blockchain’s impact on the world.
The reason for proof of stake’s environmentally friendly by design quality is described
succinctly by Marc Blinder of the Harvard Business Review:

“While Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, and Ethereum all depend on energy inefficient
cryptographic problem-solving known as “Proof of Work” to operate, many newer blockchains use
“Proof of Stake” (PoS) systems that rely on market incentives. Server owners on PoS systems are
called “validators” — not “miners.” They put down a deposit, or “stake” a large amount of
cryptocurrency, in exchange for the right to add blocks to the blockchain. In Proof of Work
systems, miners compete with each other to see who can problem-solve the fastest in exchange for
a reward, taking up a large amount of energy. But in PoS systems, validators are chosen by an
algorithm that takes their “stake” into account. Removing the element of competition saves energy
and allows each machine in a PoS system to work on one problem at a time, as opposed to a
Proof of Work system, in which a plethora of machines are rushing to solve the same problem.
Additionally, if a validator fails to behave honestly, they may be removed from the network —
which helps keep PoS systems accurate.”[15]

Additionally, proof of stake is elegantly simple in its architecture. Rather than requiring
unfathomably complex machinery for solving an increasingly difficult algorithm, all that is
required of stakers is skin in the game — a stake of the network’s token that is put up for
validation. Owing to the simplicity of proof of stake, there is less that can go wrong versus more
complex systems, and much less required in terms of resources that strain the environment.

5.4 Bitcoin PoS Is More Secure Against 51% Attacks
Security is the top concern amongst cryptocurrency advocates, investors, speculators, and network
participants. Who wants to lose everything because of a flaw in the system?
Bitcoin has just such a flaw — it is called centralization. Mining creates a paradigm of
centralization that raises the specter of a 51% attack. If such an attack were to occur, the entire
network, and its billion of dollars in value, would be jeopardized. It’s safe to say that in such a
circumstance, the Bitcoin network would be finished.
Bitcoin PoS, by transitioning the entire updated Bitcoin codebase to proof of stake, avoids
the possibility of a 51% attack with its elegantly simple design. Whereas an attacker needs to
control 51% of the network hashrate for Bitcoin, if an attacker made an attempt on Bitcoin PoS,
they would need to control at least 50% of the network’s token supply.
This difference is very important to recognize. Hashrate can be consolidated by creating
common interests for the heads of major mining cartels. However, tokens can’t be consolidated by
the same effort, since they are distributed across a wider cast of actors who have varying interests,
aims, and network values. The effort required to sway token holders into selling or contributing
their stake would be incalculably difficult, bordering on impossible, and so remains outside the
scope of threats to Bitcoin PoS.
Staking pools, while beneficial for delegating stake and lessening the technical knowledge
required by individual stakers, have been accused as possible sources of centralization within the
proof of stake ecosystem. However, because staking pools don’t require the physical warehousing
of tokens being staked and are merely delegates of stake, don’t possess the tokens in a saleable
format. Again, this reduces risk of 51% network attacks for not only Bitcoin PoS, but all proof of
stake networks.

Source: Longhash.com

6. Bitcoin PoS Architecture
At its core, Bitcoin PoS uses the same updated codebase as Bitcoin. The significant difference,
however, is the consensus algorithm. Bitcoin PoS uses proof of stake, rather than proof of work,
for consensus building.
It is important to note that Bitcoin PoS is not a Bitcoin chain fork. Instead, it is an
original implementation of the Bitcoin codebase with several performance and consensus upgrades
that make Bitcoin PoS a superior choice for financial applications such as payments — allowing to
vastly improve network scalability.

Staking Prerequisites
Staking is the process of holding funds in a cryptocurrency wallet to support the operations of a
blockchain network. Essentially, it consists of locking cryptocurrencies to receive rewards.
The following prerequisites apply to staking BPSs:
–
The coins to be staked need to be matured; this means that the unspent outputs (UTXOs in
short) need to have a depth in the main chain of at least the 500 blocks (which is the coinbase/coinstake
maturity)
–
The coins to be staked need to be in compatible address/transaction types (please check
accordingly; at the time of writing this paper only P2PK and P2PKH are supported)

Block Structure
Bitcoin PoS uses PoS V3 as consensus algorithm. The blocks must abide by these rules:
•

Must have exactly 1 staking transaction

•

The staking transaction must be the second transaction in the block

•

The coinbase transaction must have 0 output value and a single empty vout

•

The block timestamp must have it's bottom 4 bits set to 0 (referred to as a "mask" in the source
code). This effectively means the blocktime can only be represented in 16 second intervals,
decreasing it's granularity

•

The block's kernel hash must meet the weighted difficulty for PoS

•

The block hash must be signed by the public key in the staking transaction's second vout. The
signature data is placed in the block (but is not included in the formal block hash)

•

The signature stored in the block must be "LowS", which means consisting only of a single piece
of data and must be as compressed as possible (no extra leading 0s in the data, or other
opcodes)

•

Most other rules for standard PoW blocks apply (valid merkle hash, valid transactions,
timestamp is within time drift allowance, etc)

Transactions
Like Bitcoin, Bitcoin PoS transactions function on the basis of public and private key signatures
wherein a public key is verified, and a private key is signed by the sender.

In non-proof of stake blockchain networks, double spends are discouraged by the lack of
incentive for staking every fork. However, proof of stake networks like Bitcoin PoS do incentivize
staking every fork. Does this mean there is a higher chance of double spend transactions in PoS
systems? The answer is no.
The above scenario is commonly referred to as the “nothing at stake” problem — but it
incorrectly makes several drastic assumptions which are, in reality, nearly impossible. The most
egregious of those assumptions is that every staker will stake every fork, when the possibility of
amassing enough support per fork, no matter how far fetched, is nearly zero.
Because an attacker (or group of attackers) would need to incentivize stakers en masse to
support a damaging fork, the logistics and cost of doing so are prohibitive.
In Bitcoin’s proof of work algorithm paradigm, that isn’t the case. Mining cartels aren’t
holding delegated coins, nor are they simply representing the interests of others. They possess
unjustifiably large amounts of hashrate, making it possible for a double spend attack to occur
should any of those heads of interest collaborate.
Therefore, Bitcoin PoS transactions are secure against double spend attacks while
retaining the basic Bitcoin transaction infrastructure that users know and enjoy.

Mutualized Proof of Stake (MPoS) Consensus
Proof of stake consensus algorithms take on many forms. There are delegated proof of stake
systems such as those used by EOS, and BFT PoS systems such as Cosmos. In the case of the
former, dPoS adds undue complications to an already elegantly simple premise held by PoS
networks. Additionally, dPoS algorithms introduce the possibility of increased network
centralization, and don’t create enough cost for an attacker.
To further prevent the possibility of an attacker disrupting the Bitcoin PoS blockchain,
Mutualized Proof of Stake consensus function has been implemented. In a nutshell, MPoS creates
an impossibly high cost barrier for malicious actors — one that is, theoretically, impassable.

MPoS Explained
Goals
1. Prevent malicious miners from attacking the network for free by constructing expensive to validate blocks, and then
receiving all of the fees back to themselves through the mining process
2. Help to make it more difficult and expensive for an attacker to DoS the network
Procedure
1. When a staker mines a block, he receives only a small portion of the PoS reward and fees. The rest of the reward
and fees are shared with 9 other people.
2. When a staker mines a block, his stake script (staketx.vout[0]) is registered to receive a share of the reward, lasting
10 blocks, 500 blocks from when the block was mined
3. Thus, every block there will be 10 reward recipients. The creator of the block, and 9 "mutual stakers".
4. After 9 blocks of shared rewards, the staker's script will be removed, and another will be added to replace it
5. If a stake script has mined more than 1 block in a 10 block period, then there can be a case where he receives 2x the
share. However, once the earliest stake script instance exceeds 510 blocks from it's mined block, it is dropped and the
reward drops to normal. Identical stake scripts should not be combined into a single UTXO, the rewards should be
duplicated

Under MPoS, attackers can’t spam the Bitcoin PoS network with fees. Instead, network
participants all share the fees, instead of the totality of fees going to a single block creator — as is
normally the case. With fee sharing in place, and an ongoing rotation of stakers, the substance
behind a spam attack vanishes. Additionally, because the MPoS algorithm has already been
deployed at scale within our test network, its success under widespread use has already been
proven.

Stake Aggregation
In order to eliminate practices such as transaction flooding whereby a staker can gain an advantage by
staking with a high number of transactions (fan-out), Bitcoin PoS combines several inputs when creating
the staking transaction (fan-in), trying to create a bigger stake for the block. To counter the unwanted
effects of this input reduction mechanism which could lead to having really large trasanction outputs, if
the stake is above a certain threshold it will also be split into several outputs.

Bitcoin PoS Payments
Of the many use cases prevalent for cryptocurrencies, the largest and most in demand is still
payments. The world is slowly but surely transitioning to a paperless reality in which digital
payments powered by similarly digital currencies are king — not cash.
Bitcoin cleared the way for this reality, but has stumbled in several major categories.
1.

Bitcoin can not scale to the needs of millions — or billions — of worldwide users.

2.

Bitcoin can’t be easily integrated into existing payment rails and point of sale devices.

3.

Bitcoin confirmations take far too long, making it inefficient for real time payments.

While some solutions, such as the Lightning Network, have been proposed and worked on,
they are as yet missing from the space and have adoption issues of their own.
Bitcoin PoS has several advantages in the payments space. It is designed expressly for
integration with existing payment systems, networks, and point of sale devices for a seamless cash
to crypto experience. This transition is aided by wise design factors.
1.
The small block size of Bitcoin systems is a scaling liability. Proof of stake blockchains
such as Bitcoin PoS reduce block times to handle more transactions per second, making them fast
enough to handle the speed of real time business.
2.
Block finality in Bitcoin PoS is improved over Bitcoin which creates a major advantage
for retailers and retail users as payments are settled nearly instantly and with finality.
3.
Whereas proof of work scaling solutions take network activity off the main-chain and onto
side-chains, Bitcoin PoS high throughput capabilities mean scaling is handled on the same chain
— without having to rely on third party solutions.

Bitcoin PoS Coin Supply
Bitcoin PoS is not meant to compete with Bitcoin. Instead, it is meant to replace Bitcoin owing to
its superior consensus algorithm, easily facilitated payments, and vastly reduced power
consumption requirements.
Given these design goals, it is important to adhere strictly to the Bitcoin coin supply
fundamentals, as Bitcoin PoS pushes for a strict adherence to Satoshi Nakamoto’s original vision
of a cashless, bankless, and third-party free financial experience.

Maximum Coin Supply — 21 million Bitcoin PoS (BPS)

Bitcoin PoS Block time
The Bitcoin PoS block time-spacing is set at 3 minutes, making it not only more than 3 times
faster than Bitcoin, but also able to handle more than 3 times the number of transactions. The
block difficulty is calculated using an algorithm that relies on exponential adjustments, and the
difficulty is adjusted at every block. Using this algorithm makes block times more predictable and
less prone to big spikes.

Bitcoin PoS Block Rewards
The Bitcoin PoS emission rate is similar to that of Bitcoin, with the key difference being that
tokens are minted by stakers and the reduction rate is 25% every 700k blocks, starting with the
block 120k, which occurs every 4 years.
The rewards for the the blocks up to 120k are split the following way:
–

blocks 0 to 40000 have a reward of 50 BPS

–

blocks 40000 to 80000 have a reward of 25 BPS

–

blocks 80000 to 120000 have a reward of 12.5 BPS
At block 120001, the BPS and Bitcoin reward/block are aligned, at 6.25 BPS.

The blocks from 0 to 5000 are proof of work blocks, premined by the developers; these
funds will be allocated for continued development and maintenance of Bitcoin PoS.
Apart from under-the-hood differences pertaining to consensus making and a vastly
improved performance, the look and feel of Bitcoin PoS is strikingly similar to Bitcoin, and will
make the transition for Bitcoin users simple.
Proof of stake offers rewards to stakers according to stake size. Just as with Bitcoin proof
of work mining, where rewards go to the miner who solves the block (known as block rewards),
Bitcoin PoS rewards also go to the staker, but split into 10 equal rewards (using the MPOS
algorithm); the chance of minting a block is proportionate to the stake size, meaning, the higher
the stake, the higher the chance is for the staker to mint a block before anyone else.
Bitcoin PoS collects fees from transactions and uses the fee amounts to reward stakers for
the activity of securing/validating the network.

Source: Ledger Academy
Proof of work mining requires tireless commitment, expenditure of energy, high startup
capital for investing hardware, and technical knowledge. Bitcoin PoS, on the other hand, can be
staked in the background of other tasks, giving you the opportunity to earn passive income as a
staker.

References
[1] https://blackcoin.org/blackcoin-pos-protocol-v2-whitepaper.pdf
[2] https://www.eia.gov/energyexplained/electricity/prices-and-factors-affecting-prices.php
[3] https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[4] https://www.forbes.com/sites/youngjoseph/2019/12/12/new-report-shows-china-dominates-bitcoinmining-is-this-a-sign-of-worry/
[5] https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/op-ed-challenge-mining-centralization-unveils-bitcoins-elegantdesign
[6] https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitmain-hits-15-billion-valuation-with-recent-backing-from-uberslargest-shareholder
[7] https://cryptobriefing.com/bitcoin-mining-centralization-record-levels-majority-china/
[8] Ibid.
[9] https://www.nature.com/articles/s41558-018-0321-8
[10] https://www.forbes.com/sites/andreamorris/2018/10/29/bitcoin-predicted-to-be-the-nail-in-thecoffin-of-climate-change/#47a1917e745e
[11] https://www.theverge.com/2019/7/4/20682109/bitcoin-energy-consumption-annual-calculationcambridge-index-cbeci-country-comparison
[12] https://www.binance.vision/security/what-is-a-51-percent-attack
[13] https://cointelegraph.com/news/the-dangers-of-mining-pools-centralization-and-security-issues
[14] https://bitcoinist.com/ethereum-pos-blockchain-cut-energy/
[15] https://hbr.org/2018/11/making-cryptocurrency-more-environmentally-sustainable

