Influence for a better world

Whitepaper v1.6
ERC20 TOKEN

www.juiice.io , www.juiice.com
April 2019, Juiice Ltd (last updated May 2020)

“MAKE SOME EXTRA JUIICE”
SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORM

Juiice can be used in many sentences
“power of influence” - he’s got real juice in this town
“money” - earn some extra juice, so we can buy a new car
“power” - my phone is out of juice
“gossip” - she just told me some serious juice about her “
purchase or investment money” - you’ve got juice for that?

JUIICE.COM

SOCIAL MEDIA SHARING PLATFORM
JUIICE is dApp enabled website & mobile app
DaPP = decentralized application
Front End > Smart Contract > Blockchain

Juiice Ltd. Wickhams Cay II, Road Town, Tortola VG1110, British Virgin Islands , Registration #: 2011211

Disclaimer and Risk Disclosure
PLEASE READ THIS ENTIRE SECTION AND DO NOT TAKE ANY ACTIONS UNTIL YOU FINISH IT

The purpose of this white paper is to present a summary of Juiice’s business model and value
proposition and introduce the Juiice crowdsale for potential token purchasers in connection
with the proposed token sale. The information set forth below may be changed for any reason,
it may not be exhaustive, and it does not imply any elements of a contractual relationship. The
sale and purchase of JUI tokens will be managed and governed by selected Token Sale Provider
(The Exchange), its policy and Terms of Sale.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should consult your legal, financial,
tax or other professional advisor(s), immediately navigate away from the Juiice website, and not
contribute to the development of Juiice.
This white paper does not purport to be all-inclusive or contain all the information that you may
desire when examining the project. This white paper’s sole purpose is to provide you with
relevant and reasonable information for you to determine whether to undertake a thorough
analysis of the project and the company with the intent of acquiring JUI tokens. PURCHASE OF
JUI TOKENS INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK AND YOU SHOULD NOT SPEND ANY FUNDS
IN THIS SALE UNLESS YOU CAN AFFORD TO LOSE THE ENTIRE AMOUNT SPENT. Please refer
to the Terms of Sale for a more comprehensive list of the possible risks concerning the JUI
token purchase. All information and content provided in this white paper are to be used on an “
as is” basis. In deciding to purchase JUI tokens, you must rely on your examination of the project
and the terms thereof, including the merits and all different risks involved. Before deciding on the
purchase of JUI tokens, you should consult your legal, financial, tax or other professional advisor
(s) as to all matters concerning this purchase, and carefully review and consider this white paper
in its entirety. You and other prospective token purchasers are encouraged to ask questions
about Juiice, its business, and the Terms of Sale of the crowdsale, and to request such data as
may be necessary to enable you to make an informed purchase decision.
Nothing in this whitepaper, on the Juiice website or in Terms of Sale will be deemed to
constitute a prospectus of any sort or a solicitation for investment, nor does it in any way pertain
to an offering or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities in any jurisdiction. If you decide to
purchase JUI tokens, please note that your purchase does not involve the exchange of
cryptocurrencies for any form of securities, investment units and/or form of ordinary or other
shares in Juiice or any other company. Furthermore, you as a JUI token holder do not receive
any form of a dividend or another revenue right that is guaranteed or participate in profit sharing
scheme nor receive any right of ownership in Juiice Ltd. or any right to participate in the
management of Juiice Ltd. It is for these reasons that we believe that JUI tokens are not
securities and may be purchased by anyone. This document is not composed in accordance
with and is not subject to, laws or regulations of any jurisdiction that are designed to protect
purchasers.
No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of the information set out in this
whitepaper. No such action has been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements
or rules of any jurisdiction. The publication, distribution or dissemination of this whitepaper
does not imply that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied
with. No financial information contained in this whitepaper has been audited.

Disclaimer and Risk Disclosure
PLEASE READ THIS ENTIRE SECTION AND DO NOT TAKE ANY ACTIONS UNTIL YOU FINISH IT
Juiice, its founders, team members and any third party involved in the Juiice project do not
warrant or assume any legal liability arising out of or related to the accuracy, reliability, or
completeness of any material contained in this whitepaper or any accompanying material or
statements. To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws, regulations and rules,
Juiice, its founders, team members, and any third party involved in the Juiice project will not be
liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort,
contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss
of use or data), arising out of or in connection with any acceptance of or reliance on this
whitepaper or any part thereof, or any accompanying material, statements or information
provided on the Juiice website by you.
All statements, estimates, and financial information contained in this white paper, on the Juiice
website, in press releases, or in any other place accessible by the public, including oral
statements that may be made by Juiice, its founders, team members, and any third parties
involved in the Juiice project and acting on behalf of Juiice, that are not statements of
historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements or information. Such forward-looking
statements or information involves known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may
cause actual events or results to differ materially from the estimates or the results implied or
expressed in such forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words
such as “expect”, “target”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “plan”, “estimate”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “would ”,
“if”, “may”, “possible”, “project” or other words of similar meaning or form. However, these words
are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements.
The law in certain jurisdictions may restrict or limit the sale and purchase of JUI tokens. The JUI
tokens are not being offered or distributed to, as well as cannot be resold or otherwise alienated
by their holders to, citizens of, natural and legal persons, having their habitual residence,
location or their seat of incorporation in the country or territory where transactions with digital
tokens are prohibited or in any manner restricted by applicable laws or regulations. If such
restricted person purchases JUI tokens, such restricted person has done so on an unlawful,
unauthorised and fraudulent basis and in this regard, will bear negative consequences. Persons
above that participate in the fundraising by providing false information about their citizenship,
residency place and nationality, will breach the Terms of Sale of JUI tokens and would have to
compensate any damages and/or losses suffered due to this violation. You agree that you
purchase, receive and hold the JUI tokens at your own risk and that JUI tokens are provided on
an ‘as is’ basis without warranties of any kind, either express or implied. It is your responsibility
to determine if you are legally allowed to purchase JUI tokens in your jurisdiction and whether
you can then resell JUI tokens to another purchaser in any given jurisdiction. You bear the sole
responsibility for determining or assessing the tax implications of your participation in the
crowdsale, purchasing, or receiving and holding JUI tokens in all respects and any relevant
jurisdiction. You represent and warrant to us that the contributed funds do not derive from any
illegal activity and allow us appropriate Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Checks. You understand
and accept that we may at any time and without any explanation reject any contribution on the
basis of simple suspicion that the funds derive from illegal acts or that AML regulation was not
honoured.
This white paper may be updated or altered with the latest version of the white paper prevailing
over previous versions. Juiice is not obligated to give you any notice of the fact or content of
any changes. The latest version of the white paper in English is available at the website https://
juiice.io/. However, there is no obligation to update, supplement, or correct this white paper or
accompanying materials in any respect, or otherwise to provide you with access to any
additional information. The information contained herein may from time to time be translated
into languages other than English or used in the course of written or verbal communications
with existing and prospective token purchasers, customers, partners, etc. In the event of any
conflicts or inconsistencies between such translations and communications and this official
English language white paper, the provisions of this English language original document will
prevail.

Intro
People are creative by default , and this attribute gets fresh wind with each
new medium . Internet , together with other modern technologies , gave
creativity wings like nothing before. Not only everyone can express himself in any
imaginable way, his work can be easily seen all around the globe. This gave birth to a
completely new form of art: viral user-generated digital content.
This art includes just about anything imaginable , from breathtaking photos of nature
and video performances of various talents to trendy jokes , funny clips and original
thoughts . On the other side , every moment tens of millions viewers are amused ,
amazed and even enlightened by this snack content . It is like a free fast food of
entertainment.
We set Juiice as an art gallery of viral micro content , which will both entertain visitors
and encourage authors to spread their creativity , their talent , their sense of humor ,
their interesting way of thinking . No superpowers or extra skills are required for
participation, it can be just a silly dog photo or a simple meme.
We think users are valuable resource of any platform , but exploited without proper
compensation . On our platform , anyone can participate with contributing and
spreading not only to the top few celebrities with millions of followers and receive
reward for their participation . It doesn 't matter where you live , the blockchain
technology enables the whole world to be properly rewarded. Blockchain is perfect for
rewarding content creators through smart contracts!
.
Curious? Creative? Juiice is the answer.

Mladen Babić, CEO

“Our purpose is “Rewarding Philosophy”, so we’re making the tool,
where you receive rewards for interactions you’re now doing for free!
Users are a valuable resource for any platform and are exploited
without any proper compensation!”

1

Challenge
There is an abundance of online exhibitions of interesting , amusing user
generated content , from forums to designated apps . We all visit them and
through a decade this has become a multi -billion business . Sites like
Facebook , Youtube , Instagram , Twitter , 9Gag , Quora , Tumblr , Ranker ,
WikiHow are getting richer and richer because of our involvement , our
uploaded photos , our jokes , our likes , and our shares . This kind of activity
usually doesn’t get any commission.

User attention does not get rewarded
With current popular platforms and apps, people that make the sites big and popular
are not rewarded for it. Those sites are cashing in huge amounts of money
accumulating from ads, direct sales, etc. We believe that it’s the people who make
those sites big that should be rewarded . User’s involvement is the most valuable
resource, for which every advertiser competes, but it is exploited without any proper
reward participation.

Sharing should be paid
Online marketing is based on visits that drive sales. So it is fair to say that nowadays
traffic is one of the most important components. But so far directing traffic to these
sites is free . For example , the most popular activity on social media is sharing
meaningful posts, funny videos, and interesting photos. We are all doing it regularly,
hence promoting those sites, but without anything in return.

Only some content creators are paid
It is easy to make content, but a lot of creators of micro-content aren’t paid at all. All
those cat memes, fantastic photos, silly videos and jokes we all laugh at and admire
every day are made for free . Same goes for numerous good articles and useful
reviews. Even many influencers and bloggers get demonetized or their channels get
closed down, because of different rules that are applied selectively.

‘’Every problem has a solution. You just have to be creative enough to find it.’’
- Travis Kalanick, co-founder of Uber’’

2

Solution
Juiice is on a mission to remunerate content creators,
influencers and even casual users for their involvement - a
service they provide to the network.
Write your thoughts , capture and share your moments , upload an image, spread a
video , and earn money doing it. We are going to share the advertisement revenue
amongst our active community, so everyone will be motivated to contribute to quality
content . And we are not stopping at that ! Our platform will also give the user a
chance to directly remunerate other content authors and even to be paid while playing
casual web games.
With Juiice platform and application , everyone will be able to cash -in the time and
potential from those sites and apps they use the most . Everyone has something to
show to the world, community or friends, everyone has a question, everyone laughs at
silly videos , everyone needs a famous quote . Everyone connects with other people
around the world. 2019/2020 will be the years of micro-influencers from all over the
world.

3

Market potential
We 're tapping into a huge market that grows daily , where competition is
already very hard and big . But with an empowering and simple idea and
unique rewarding algorithm, we can become a major player too. Furthermore,
we will work hand in hand with them, using their big network to direct traffic
to our platform. Our users will share Juiice content all over other established
sites and receive a remuneration based on the traffic they bring in. We even
believe that many of them will follow our steps.

There are nearly 4.4 billion internet users around the world. Around 3.4 billion people
use social media. Almost everyone owns a smartphone, laptop, PC or tablet. Social
media sites and video sites are booming and the majority of internet traffic consists
of video content and images. Not only our devices but ‘WE’ are online 24/7. We wake
up and immediately check emails and messages, browse through news and social
happening. Before we even get to our work, we already spend half an hour getting all
forms of information from everywhere and everyone.

By the end of 2020, 90% of internet traffic will consist of video content. With
video on demand services , streaming video games, animated gifs, pictures ,
messaging and advertising revenue worldwide there are billions of dollars
turning around . In the past 5 years , there was a rapid average growth of
internet traffic for 15-20% yearly . While traditional television is stagnating
and the percentage of old school TV viewers is constantly decreasing ,
streaming video is gaining momentum.

4

Some of those sites are hiding their ad revenue, some publicly show their reports. So
here are the numbers we have found on the internet. 2018 was the year of Facebook
, leading with close to 60 billion dollars of revenue, following Youtube with just above
20 billion dollars. Instagram is growing and Facebook bets on it big time. So we're
diving into a big market!

Sources: statista.com

Did you know that in Asia, Africa and South America lives about 3 billion people who
are between 14 and 40 years old? Majority of those people own a smartphone .
These emerging countries have the biggest potential, following the already big base
of social media users from North America and Europe.
It's a perfect time to jump in and present people a chance to make money from
online involvement on the Juiice platform. History favors the bold, and we are here to
make the change.

5

Our users
Micro influencers & already known influencers
Influencers are sort of pop stars on the internet due to their strong presence on social
media . They have a lot of followers and subscribers , and can influence a certain
group of people. They are the ones who bring the biggest user attention by uploading
their videos, pics, music, quotes, etc...

Content creators:
Content creators are anyone who make videos, take pictures , photoshop a meme,
create music or write a blog. They are making jokes, spreading the word, showing
interesting hobbies and skills. Juiice is what they need to monetize their work, sense
of humor and talents.

Social media users:
There are billions of people that use social media networks and sites. Use them and
start getting rewards with your connections , followers, friends, etc. If you don't have
anything to upload , then you can share the content and spread the word. You will be
remunerated for that too!

Gen Z, gen Y, and gen X
We will mostly target GEN Z (born in mid-1990 to mid-2000s) and GEN Y (known as
millennials, early 1980s to mid-1990s). We believe these two groups will change the
market as we know it. Generation X (born in the 1960s to the early 1980s) is not be
our top targeted generation, however they will use our platform and app for sure.

Why target gen Z and gen Y?
They are our future! They are looking for new ways of expressing and making money!
They grew up with the internet , they know how to handle smartphones , they think
differently than older generations . For example , Gen Zs who are watching social
videos each month is 40 percent above average for using online sources to research
products. They also are influenced by social reviews, admitting that lots of “likes” and
positive comments on social media motivates them to make a purchase.
2019/2020 will be the years of micro-influencers and entrepreneurs and they will
use every tool possible on the market, that can bring them the same extra
revenue.
6

Platform features
Juiice ecosystem is made up of users , content creators and advertisers . The
platform takes a small part of advertising revenue, but the rest goes to the active
community . Our business model empowers micro influencers and normal social
media user to work with Juiice closely and finally get compensated for their
presence and casual activities online.

Free user account
Anyone that register at Juiice platform become our Juiice user. The account is free
and can do any function platform offers: add content, share content, do daily tasks
and unlock extra features, reward your favorite content creator and support any listed
charity.

Juiice Power Account (remuneration account)
This account unlocks power features . For adding or sharing content , you receive
remuneration - as a payment for service provided to our network. Users unlock power
account with 1000 JUI tokens. Unlock is needed in order to prove commitment and to
avoid fake accounts spreading inappropriate content . Tokens can be either purchased
or received from other users as a reward.

Gamification in a fun way
Juiice account will also feature gamified system apart from money rewarding
scheme . For every action, including liking and commenting , users will be awarded
with Juiice Pulp. Juiice Pulp is not redeemable , but it will raise users ‘pulp-level’ and
give them badges and ranks, hence motivating them to be actively involved.

Donation feature
Inside your remuneration account , you can set to donate certain percent from your
account to confirmed and proven charities or campaigns that will be published on our
platform. This will be taken care by smart contracts.

7

Influencers tools
Juiice will have various influencer tools, where advertisers can hire an influencer or
publish a call out to influencers, so they can apply for their campaigns and pay them in
Juiice tokens.

Daily queue bonuses
There will be daily quests, such as watching ten trending videos, sharing something
over Facebook and getting likes on your comments . These ‘dailies’ will be awarded
extra features and bonuses.

Invitation bonus
Through our referral program members will be encouraged to invite others to join
Juiice, because they will receive share from their earnings.

8

JUIICE Token
Juiice is creating the social media and entertainment platform for today ’s
generation , inspiring more culturally rewarding , trusted , and value-driven social
engagement. As a social media platform, we aim to bring people and communities
together, and connect them to relevant content and opportunities while enabling
every single user to monetize the value of their online activity.
Juiice is creating the social media and entertainment platform for today’s generation,
inspiring more culturally rewarding, trusted, and value-driven social engagement. As a
social media platform, we aim to bring people and communities together, and
connect them to relevant content and opportunities while enabling every single user
to monetize the value of their online activity.
The fundamental principle behind the Juiice ecosystem is that all participants should
be financially motivated to create, share, post or like online content and share value
with each other. The ecosystem itself consists of users, content creators, influencers,
advertisers and app developers – all connecting and transacting with each other
through a network of decentralized communities.
Juiice’s main source of revenue comes from advertising, where 60% of the revenue
will be used to remunerate platfrom users for their engagement with the platform
content (liking, sharing and commenting; for such engagement they will be
remunerated in JUI tokens), while the remaining 40% will fund the operational costs
and furthure development.

To quickly establish the ecosystem during the initial stage and encourage early user
adoption , Juiice will set a remunerate pool of JUI tokens to kick-start growth through
user acquisition , while rewarding content creators and active users for their
contributions. YES, Juice is about to monetise all your social media activity, even “likes”
and “shares” of valuable content.

9

JUI is a true utility token that will power Juiice social media platform, grant access to
powerful platforms’ features and be used to reward Juiice’s active users:
• Juiice Remuneration Account – Juiice proprietary algorithm measures and analyses
user ’ s activity , such as uploading and sharing of the content , and determines the
appropriate remuneration for each contribution based on the number of views, shares
and likes.
• JUI is the only way to receive remunerations in the Juiice platform for
performed services (activities) in the network.
• JUI token enables in-app purchases, such as virtual goods, to pay other users
( such as influencers) other users or grant access to new apps supported by the
platform.
• JUI token powered donations, encouraging charities to engage with platform’
s users to help the needy.
• Juiice Market Place and Direct Advertising, allowing users and influencers to
promote their products and bring traffic to their websites in exchange for JUI tokens
.
• Connecting influencers and advertisers - No more agencies’ cuts. JUI tokens will
be held in the escrow until both parties are satisfied with their agreement and each
site fulfils its obligations.

Juiice and Blockchain
Juiice is creating a decentralized social media platform and rewarding
mechanism powered by Ethereum blockchain. JUI will be implemented on the
public Ethereum blockchain as an ERC20 token. The Ethereum blockchain is
currently the industry standard for issuing custom digital assets and smart
contracts. The ERC20 token interface allows for the deployment of a standard
token that is compatible with the existing infrastructure of the Ethereum
ecosystem, such as development tools, wallets and exchanges. The public
Ethereum network will serve as the settlement layer for JUI tokens, allowing for
transfers, purchases of virtual assets and reward distribution to be made directly
on the blockchain. Smart contracts will automatically execute transaction
payments and the distribution of rewards without the participation of a third-party
intermediary. Moreover, Juiice will use smart contracts, allowing advertisers to set
their own requirements and preferences. Once the influencer agrees with the
advertiser’s offer, the terms will be written into the smart contract, which will then
be sealed with a timestamp and put onto the blockchain. When it comes to
payments, one of the biggest advantages of using the blockchain technology in
the advertiser-influencer relationship is the ability to offer an escrow. Both the
advertiser and the influencer should be motivated to successfully fulfil contract
obligations by placing a deposit in JUI tokens. This deposit is released to the
Advertiser (as a payment) only after the service is rendered, forcing both parties to
respect their contractual obligations.The platform will encourage and reward third
party developers who will deploy and promote new decentralized applications.
10

Token Sale Summary
General Information: JUIICE - JUI
• Juiice token (Ticker: JUI) is a fully compliant ERC-20 utility
token
• Total number of JUI Tokens that will be generated during the
Token Generation Event: 50,000,000,000 JUI
• No additional tokens will be created in the future and all tokens,
not sold in the Token Sale, will be destructed.
• Total number of JUI tokens reserved for Token Sale (the
Private and Public Sale): 30,000,000,000 JUI (60 %)
• Minimum sum of contributions (soft cap): 1,000,000 USD
• JUI token price: 1 JUI = 0.0002 USD*
* Subject to change during the Public Token Sale and in accordance with Terms of Sale
of the nominated exchanges.
For the purposes of participating in the token sale, all crowdsale buyers will need to
undergo a know-your-customer (KYC) procedure as required by applicable KYC/AML
laws and regulations.
Buyers from particular jurisdictions (including, but not limited to the United States ,
Canada and Singapore) as specified in the terms and conditions of the Juiice token
crowdsale (published on our website www.juiice.io) will not be eligible to participate in
the token sale.

11

Total number of generated JUIICE Tokens: 50,000,000,000
• 60% of tokens will be sold in the ICO to secure funds for further product
develop- ment, operations and international expansion
• 10% of tokens will be given to early early stage supporters, true believers,
who showed a lot of trust and provided rocket fuel for our idea
• 10% of tokens is reserved for Juiice Foundation.
• 7% of tokens will be awarded to our advisors and ambassadors that helped
the project with their knowledge and expertise
• 6% of tokens will be held by project founders and the rest of the team that
helped to bring the project to life with their hard work and dedication
• 4% of tokens is intended for the initial stocking of the bounty pool to award
contributors, who help build and curate our database of entities
• 3% of tokens will be added to Juiice.com remuneration pool

Vesting Plan for the Team, Advisors and Ambassadors
All tokens belonging to founders will be reverse vested for 24 months with
monthly cliffs.

12

Total number of generated JUIICE Tokens: 50,000,000,000
• 40% Marketing
• 20% Product Development
• 15% Administrative and operational cost
• 15% Business development
• 5% Legal cost
•5% IT infrastructure

13

Roadmap
We will share wisdom and the joy of giving!
Decentralizing and rewarding people for spending time on our
apps and platforms!

Q2 2019

-POC (proof of concept)

Q3 2019

-MVP (minimum viable product)

Q4 2019
Q1 2020
- Gamification added to Juiice
platform
- Features: create groups,
open promo pages, Juiice
learning school

- Working web platform
- Closed private pre-sale (10
% of tokens)

Q2 2020

-App released on google play and
apple store
- Live streaming for users

Q3 2020
-IEO (initial
exchange
offering)
- Token
transaction infromation
platform
- Expansion of
features on platform
- Tools for micro
influencers

Q4 2020

-Integration of AR (
augmented reality) features
- Own games added top
Juiice platform
Cooperation with online
celebrities/influencersl
- Juiice chat rooms
- Juiice photo & video lab

14

Team

MLADEN BABIĆ

ZOKKI REHAR

IGOR ŠINKOVEC

CEO

COO

CSO

JUNIOR PRESEZNIAK

DAVID TOMŠIČ

Senior Developer

Editor in Chief

SILVO FORTUNA
Community Manager

SANJA BABIĆ

ANURAG SINGH
Sr. iOS Developer

GOPAL GUPTA
Sr. Android Developer

Content Manager

HIMANSHU YADAV Sr.
NodeJS Developer

15

Advisors

OŽBEJ DRMOTA
IEO & Blockchain Advisor

DARYL NAIDOO
IEO & ICO Advisor

MALLIKARJUNA NAIDU
Blockchain Advisor

HADI DEEN
Social Media Advisor

ROBERT GAZVODA
IEO & Startup Advisor

NIKOLA KORBAR
Crypto Advisor

TILEN ČUK
Gamification Advisor

ANŽE ŽURBI
Gamification Advisor

VIVIAN CHEANG
Brand Ambassador

ROEL DE LEEUW
Brand Ambassador

16

Partners

Contact us: wm@juiice.io

17

