THE TERRA FOUNDATION PRESENTS
CREDIT (CREDIT) DECENTRALIZED PAYMENT PLATFORM

WHITEPAPER

"THE ONLY WAY A CRYPTOCURRENCY CAN BECOME A
GLOBAL PAYMENT SYSTEM IS IF EVERYONE WHO
MAKES PAYMENTS HAS ACCESS TO IT"
Dan Ronchese
Founder of The Terra Foundation and creator of the Credit (CREDIT)
Cryptocurrency

ABSTRACT
A decentralized payment platform allows users to send and receive payments without the
need for a trusted third-party. However, research has shown that there needs to be an
intermediary to manage transactions and prevent double-spending. Blockchain and its
use of digital signatures (Encryption) is only part of the solution. The decentralization of
network nodes is crucial to ensure long term safety of the network. In both Proof-of-Work
(PoW) and Proof-of-Stake (PoS) blockchains, the longest chain provides a validation
point. In a Proof-of-Work environment, this system is flawed because it relies on computational power. This dependency means that if enough miners and equipment colluded,
they could overpower a network. We propose Proof-of-Stake as a better alternative
because it does not decide the longest chain based on hash power. Instead, wallet
balance and coin maturity are the methods of determination. Unlike the majority of
Proof-of-Stake Blockchains, our producers are more numerous and further decentralized
thanks to an intuitive coin distribution program and the accessibility of our auto-staking
desktop wallet.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction - page 5
1. Vision - page 6
2. Mission - page 7
3. Credit’s Usage- page 8
4. Payment Platform- page 9
5. Incentive for 3rd Party Producers- page 11
6. Regular Cryptocurrency- page 12
7. Alternative to Cash- page 13
8. Long-Term Investment- page 14
9. International Payments- page 15
10. Proof-of-Stake- page 16
11. Proof-of-Stake Advantages- page 17
12. TerraCredit Staking- page 19
13. Masternode Network- page 19
14. Coin Specifications - page 25
15. Team- page 26
16. Roadmap- page 28
Conclusion - page 33
Credits - page 33
Contacts - page 34

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

INTRODUCTION
Credit is a Cryptocurrency that aims to be a premier decentralized digital payment
solution to the world's unbanked adult population. Studies show this population as an
estimated $50,000,000,000,000.00 (Fifty Trillion Dollars) Market.
Terra designed TerraCredit (CREDIT) to offer free and fast blockchain-based payments.
Credit employs the Proof-of-Stake consensus mechanism. This approach allows any user
to become a block producer. Block producers support the network and receive rewards in
the form of new coins for doing so. This function replaces traditional mining that is
expensive and complicated.
The desktop wallet stakes users' coin balances automatically. This process allows them
to become a block producer and earn rewards for maintaining the Credit blockchain. This
feature creates a legitimate and passive income stream without the need to invest in
expensive equipment or possess technical knowledge.
The Credit wallet is simple to use and does everything automatically. You just need a
computer or laptop. To get started, make sure your PC has an internet connection and
that you have CREDIT coins in your wallet. Next, verify that your wallet is 100% synced
and unlocked for staking. The rest happens automatically.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

VISION
The TerraCredit DAO’s vision is to see Credit become the leading cryptocurrency in the
digital-economy. One that is functional, widely used, driven by its users, and adapting to
their needs.
We see Credit as a viable replacement to cash and a rewarding option that is attractive to
new users. We hope that Credit will be a tool of change in the lives of its users, allowing
them access to a new financial system that is better than any option available today.
Our vision extends beyond this Golden age of humanity and thousands of years into the
future. We expect that the Credit Blockchain will outlive all of its current users. The
platform's design can benefit generations to come.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

MISSION
Our mission is to develop Credit into a force unto itself, much like Bitcoin. We have
identified several traits that we believe a cryptocurrency needs to be successful and to
achieve mass adoption.
And they are:
Transparency
Decentralization
Sustainability
Security
Feasibility
User-friendliness Integration
Credit was born to embody all of the above traits while still retaining the flexibility to
improve and adapt to the ever-changing Financial and crypto environment.
Another vital aspect of the Credit mission is the introduction of cryptocurrency into the
lives of new users.
Research proves that cryptocurrency is a life-changing catalyst of financial freedom that
has the potential to change people's lives. Terra wants to expose as many people as it
can to the benefits of Cryptocurrency use in daily life.
One new user is one step closer to a complete Crypto-world, and at Terra, we believe that
we have the potential to add a substantial amount of mileage toward this goal.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

CREDIT'S USAGE:
Credit functions as a digital payment platform, a decentralized solution to cash, and a
peer-to-peer ecosystem. Credit's most critical role is as a medium of exchange to
facilitate digital transactions.
For Credit to be a medium of exchange, it must be a store of value. If Credit could not be
stored over time and remain valuable, it would not fulfill its goal as a medium of
exchange. Credit utilizes network wallets. These wallets allow users to stake holdings to
support the network and earn new coins as a reward. This strategy ensures that the
storage of Credit generates tangible value to the holder over time.
Within the Terra ecosystem, Credit will function as a unit of account, providing a
universal measure of the value of goods and services exchanged. This approach will
enable both buyer and seller to make decisions about the value of the products or
services on offer.
International payments are instant and have virtually no cost. The transparency of the
Credit Blockchain ensures public accountability of all transactions as every coin features
trace capabilities.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

AS A PAYMENT PLATFORM FOR THE WORLD'S
UNBANKED
A concept close to mind when creating Credit was Adoption. Adoption not only of Credit
but all Cryptocurrencies is paramount.
The more Cryptocurrencies directly linked to real-world usability, function, and value, the
more adoption will occur.
Although globally cryptocurrency adoption is on an upward trend, we at The Terra
Foundation want to make sure that we do the most we can to bolster and nurture user
adoption by making Credit user-friendly and rewarding.
We want to make it simple and easy for everyday users to conduct transactions, and for
businesses to start accepting Credit as a form of payment.
Our analysis of the global unbanked adult population revealed the following results:
94% of adults in high-income countries said they had a bank account, while only 54% of
those in developing countries did. The Middle East had the lowest proportion of account
holders, with only 14% on average. Notably, 80% of adults in developing nations have
smartphones and use mobile apps.
We have established that there is low use of bank accounts in the developing world. We
also know that traditional cryptocurrencies pose many financial and technical barriers to
new users from these regions. For the most part, this market gets little attention from
the global cryptocurrency industry.
In developing nations, the mobile money market is expanding. Only 2% of adults
worldwide have a mobile money account. Also, 12% of adults in Sub Saharan Africa have
one, half of whom have no other account. We found that countries with the highest
dependency on mobile money solutions had the lowest usage of bank accounts.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

It's worth noting that the most common reason for not having a bank account was that
they did not have enough money and or the charges made it not viable to use a bank
account over mobile money. Surprisingly, only 4% said they did not need one.
Terra proposes that the Credit App-based wallet should replace centralized mobile money
and cash at the same time. Credit offers virtually free instant payments that can be sent
anywhere in the world. Additionally, the wallet earns you more coins.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

AS INCENTIVE FOR 3RD PARTY PRODUCERS
Terra designed Credit as a highly rewarding decentralized blockchain-based
cryptocurrency.
Credit is simple to use and does not require expensive equipment or advanced technical
experience. Credit employs Proof-of-Stake as the consensus algorithm, unlike Proof of
Work, the Credit Blockchain ignores computational power. Block producers are selected
based on coin balance and maturity.
The credit blockchain ecosystem utilizes nodes that are also known as wallets, the most
common of which is the Desktop wallet. All Credit wallets feature an auto-staking
function that allows any user with a modern PC, VPS, or even Raspberry Pi to become a
producer.
The reward for supporting the blockchain is an incentive to promote further
decentralization between producers. The goal is to create an even playing field by
allowing almost anyone to earn a passive income supporting the Credit Blockchain.
Credit is simple, install the wallet, have sufficient balance, and you will earn. No tweaks,
no dependencies, no issues, this level of accessibility is an incentive on its own.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

AS A REGULAR CRYPTOCURRENCY
Credit ticks all the boxes as a cryptocurrency, it is decentralized, it is blockchain-based,
and features an open-source code. However, it goes far beyond these requirements and
continues to offer a range of useful and beneficial improvements.
Credit is faster than most cryptocurrencies and offers virtually free transactions. It is
capable of handling millions of transactions every minute because of its frequency of
block production. Credit is easy to use and provides a concise block production process.
Block production is highly profitable because there is no demand for hash power. Credit's
design will function on nearly any smart device.
Users are encouraged to use Credit across multiple platforms and even develop their
unique external frameworks, platforms, and applications implementing Credit.
Credit's code will always remain open-source and available for adoption or improvement
at any time. Any users wanting to do this will receive the full support, encouragement,
and guidance of the TerraCredit DAO.
Credit transcends its true purpose as a payment platform and also serves as a highly
tradable asset. We have the benefit of entering the market in a downed state, and the
future value of Credit looks bright once the market corrects.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

AS AN ALTERNATIVE TO CASH
We propose that the Terra App-based wallet is a suitable replacement for cash, one that
allows for instant digital payments across a range of devices.
In June 2019, the Terra wallet app will launch with a range of features to facilitate
everyday payments. We are developing a variety of solutions that include technology
such as tap and pay, QR scanning, and Point of Sale. These include online payments for
e-commerce solutions and digital retailers.
Terra will foster the trading and exchange of Credit for goods and services on a
user-to-user level. Users are encouraged to shed the risks of using Fiat Currency and
instead use Credit as it ensures safety, transparency, and value on every level.
Credit transactions work on multiple levels of use, ranging from large corporations to
small businesses. The primary market is individual users in an everyday environment.
It's the directive of the TerraCredit DAO to make sure that no area of use sees neglect
and that Credit's use fosters on all levels.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

AS A LONG-TERM INVESTMENT VEHICLE
Users can easily make long-term investments with sizable returns when holding their
Credit in an online desktop wallet. After 8 hours, the balance will become staked to the
network. You will periodically receive rewards of new coins for your effort in supporting
block production.
This strategy creates an ideal investment situation where you are the banker. There is
zero trust required when you own and operate your wallet.
The new coins you earn arrive from the future maximum supply. Plus, they deposit
directly to your wallet. There is no middle man in this situation. The best part is that you
retain your initial balance throughout this process, thus never diminishing your wealth
unless you sell all of your coins. Then, that is the end of Block production for you.
Many users will likely spend their profits. Credit's design welcomes millions of new
cryptocurrency users to the global community. This platform aims to enrich their lives by
rewarding them in a simple yet accessible manner.
Over time, Credit's profitability model will become more attractive to new and first-time
users, not to mention experienced miners that can sell their pricey equipment and stake
Credit on their home computer.
All of these earnings and new coins promote scarcity because a Credit balance is
required to produce blocks. The bigger your balance, the more rewards you earn. This
strategy is the ultimate win-win situation.
This trend will continue. More new and experienced users will join the Credit Blockchain
for its low cost, high reward, and simplicity.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

INTERNATIONAL PAYMENTS
It's a widely known fact that using cryptocurrency for international payments is faster
and cheaper.
This scenario is also the case with Credit. Our transactions are instant and carry virtually
0 costs. Amazingly, the base fee for any transaction is 0.0001 CREDIT. Additionally, there
is a payment grouping feature. With a target value of $0.01, you can easily see that
Credit payments are almost free. The value of 1 CREDIT would need to increase in value
1,000 times for a transaction to cost $0.01.
When we say payments are instant, we mean instant. Credit introduces a higher rate of
block production that can handle millions of nodes, all verifying blocks at the same time.
Credit can handle millions of transactions in a minute.
Many people don't live where they grew up but still have loved ones back home. It's
common in many cultures for younger generations to send money home to rural communities. Credit is ideally suited to captivate the remittance market segment.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

PROOF-OF-STAKE
As the crypto sector approaches its tenth anniversary, there have been significant strides
made in the field of blockchain security. Of these, none is more significant than the
development of the Proof-of-Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism. This next-generation
protocol was first introduced in a paper by Sunny King and Scott Nadal in 2012.
In the paper, the two researchers explained in detail how the use of staking wallets could
provide adequate security for blockchain networks in a manner that is far more efficient
than Bitcoin's Proof-of-Work (POW) mechanism. This power reduction was possible
thanks to a shifting of the core principles of the PoW mechanism.
PoS systems share many similarities with PoW mechanisms. For one, every staking node
is competing to create a valid block, however, unlike a PoW system that allows a node to
attempt indefinitely. The TerraCredit PoS mechanism restricts the number of trials
allowed over a given time. In this way, PoS coins eliminate mining centralization based
on computational power.
Currently, PoW systems continue to deal with serious concerns such as concentrated
mining pools. These pools are the direct result of an arms race going on within the
mining community. The very nature of a PoW system creates a scenario in which miners
must attempt to outspend each other to remain relevant in the fast-changing sector.
Today, to have any success in Bitcoin mining, a person must obtain an Application
Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) mining rig. These rigs are thousands of times more
efficient at calculating the PoW SHA-256 algorithm than a standard PC. However, they
also cost thousands to purchase and operate.
These rising costs have left many miners unable to keep up. This exclusion equates to
more centralization in the market. A PoS consensus mechanism does away with these
hardware demands and democratizes the entire mining process.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

In the Proof-of-Stake validation strategy, nodes don't need to purchase expensive mining
rigs to participate. Instead, the security for the network shifts to those who hold the
most coins. These coins must remain across synchronized network wallets. This act is
known as staking.

PROOF-OF-STAKE ADVANTAGES
Aside from the massive environmental benefits obtained through PoS integration, there
are some other vital aspects worth mentioning. Primarily, decentralization is at the core
of any PoS system. The more centralized a cryptocurrency becomes, the less secure the
network remains. Nowadays, Centralization is a severe concern for PoW-based
blockchains such as Bitcoin or Ethereum. In this way, a PoS system helps to democratize
network responsibilities and creates a fair playing field for everyone.
PoS Upgrades
Since its introduction, the PoS consensus mechanism has undergone numerous
upgrades. Each reiteration of this protocol has provided more security and speed.
Notably, Pavel Vasin made the first major overhaul to the PoS system when he released
his BlackCoin project. This project saw immediate success because it did away with coin
age concerns.
Coin age is a concept in which a node gains more influence in the market by not
spending their tokens for more extended periods. It is also a measure of how long a
UTXO (Unspent Transaction Output) remains unspent. Developers wanted to ensure that
someone couldn't dominate the mining sector, so they placed a time limit on how long
your coins remain valid for staking purposes. In the upgrade, developers focused on the
number of coins staked versus their age. Higher balances mean a higher chance of
satisfying the difficulty criteria.
Today, the Proof-of-Stake consensus mechanism exists in many variations. Notably,
version 3 of the protocol has seen great success since integration into the Zerocoin
platform in 2018.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

In the TerraCredit ecosystem, the PoS concept goes a step further. The network's design
automatically decides what node is next to add the block of transactions to the
blockchain. In this way, TerraCredit users enjoy a decentralized and secure experience.
This decision depends on various factors:
· Balance (UTXOs) staked by the wallet
· Time Staked
Decentralization is Crucial to Security
TerraCredit's network features cutting edge design features tailored to eliminate
centralization concerns. The entire platform includes a robust and open design that
allows for further network maturity as time progresses.
PoS Criticisms
As with any new technology, there are still some in the market that think that PoS
systems lack the security of PoW systems. These individuals cite attack vectors such as
potential double-spending and vulnerabilities to long-range and nothing-at-stake attacks.
TerraCredit eliminates these concerns through the integration of a confirmation protocol.
Importantly, staking/masternode rewards require 100 consecutive confirmations. Only
after 101 blocks can a node spend these earnings. This strategy helps protect against
network dominance via malicious staking involving exponential growth.
Attack Vectors Explained
TerraCredit's robust design requires hackers to control approximately 70.7% of staked
coins for a 50% chance of double spending or invalidating a single block. Unlike a PoW
network, a PoS hacker would need to attack their financial status if they chose to undertake these actions. In the end, the hacker would stand to lose the most attacking the
network.
Another commonly referred to PoS attack vector is the history attack. In this scenario,
blockthe first blocks are rewritten, compromising the validity of the current state of the block
chain. TerraCredit developers introduced checkpoints within the network to eliminate this
risk. Think of checkpoints as markers set at intervals preventing any alteration/forking
prior.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

TERRACREDIT STAKING
TerraCredit assets allow users to stake on the network at any time. Notably, staking
requires a user to possess at least one of the smallest units (0.000000001) of a CREDIT.
The staking party will also need to have their wallet online and synchronized with the
network. It's crucial to maintain all relevant block information up to date, and for wallets
to remain unlocked for staking to occur.

MASTERNODE NETWORK
Intuitively, the TerraCredit network features a two-tiered design meant to increase functionality and security. The first tier in the system is the staking tier. It's here that all
TerraCredit users can participate in transaction validations. The second tier is what's
known as the master node tier.
Masternodes
Interestingly, the Masternode concept was pioneered and championed by Dash. Today it's
prevalent in the market. Since its inception, the idea has made significant improvements
to its capabilities. In the TerraCredit network, masternodes are responsible for the
handling of particular specialized tasks.
Masternode Network Technical Functions
Masternodes handle a wide variety of functions that are independent of the staking
nodes. As such, these nodes possess distinct capabilities unique to their raised status
within the network. Critically, TerraCredit's blockchain prevents one masternode from
gaining power or authority over others in the system. Here are some of the masternodes
unique capabilities within the TerraCredit ecosystem:

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

Swiftx
TerraCredit masternodes utilize Swiftx protocols. Swiftx is a specially designed coding
that enables near-instantaneous transactions across the blockchain. These capabilities
put TerraCredit in line with major payment processors such as banks or credit card
companies such as Visa and MasterCard. Keenly, Swiftx transactions take place
exclusively within the masternode portion of the TerraCredit blockchain. All functions
related to Swiftx take place via a quorum between masternodes.
How Swiftx Works
The Swiftx protocol is simplistic but powerful. Whenever a user proposes a Swiftx
transaction, it remains locked by a random delegate masternode. The locking of the
operation serves the purpose of making the funds spendable only through a specific
transaction.
From here, the network recognizes all different blocks or transactions regarding the
Swiftx transaction. The hash of the secured transaction broadcasts using a
high-performance asynchronous messaging library over the entire masternode network.
Interestingly, this strategy allows TerraCredit's blockchain to achieve consensus
instantly. Also, it eliminates the need to wait for multiple confirmations.
Coin-Mixing
To create the most robust and helpful cryptocurrency to date, TerraCredit developers
integrated a coin-mixing feature. Coin-mixing is one of the most popular ways to add
private transactions to a network. The process involves the obscuring of transactions via
the dividing of funds to protect their source.
This protocol is not the same as moving the total of a transaction directly from the
source to target, but rather, dividing it into mixed transactions. The goal here is to
complicate any tracing efforts. Mixed coins are more difficult to track versus single point
transactions. This process serves to maintain the fungibility of units of the currency.
Additionally, it gives TerraCredit users the ability to legitimately make private
transactions, with no record stored on the blockchain.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

TerraCredit's network utilizes the most advanced coin-mixing protocol in the market. This
next-generation protocol takes cues from Zerocoin's sophisticated coin-mixing system.
The coding features profoundly improved privacy baked into the cryptography.
Additionally, this strategy limits the need for coin-mixing dependency on masternodes.
TerraCredit will continue to pioneer technology to remain at the very forefront of privacy.
Masternode Decentralized Governance
The TerraCredit platform functions as a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO).
DAOs are not dependent on human intervention to complete complex contractual
agreements. In this scenario, the DAO sets out the community's governance guidelines.
This strategy eliminates the risks of a concentration of power within the community. This
organic approach to governance intends to draw the most value from members of the
TerraCredit community. Additionally, it provides individual users with the most flexibility
to achieve their interests.
In the TerraCredit network, Masternodes from the primary governance mechanism. These
nodes can vote on proposals made by community members. Notably, anyone can submit
a proposal for a masternode voting session. Additionally, the platform includes a robust
community discussion about all aspects of development.
Notably, there are currently over 500 TerraCredit nodes all working in tandem to secure
the network. This number will expand significantly over the next five years. Keenly,
TerraCredit's governance protocols are designed by and for the community. The intention
is that all members of the community can agree on factors that fall in line with
everyone's best interests.
Proposal Voting
Each masternode in the network is entitled to one vote on any given proposal. In this
way, masternodes function as a decentralized voting mechanism set up in the rules
governing the blockchain. In this process, the tally of the votes at the end of the session
results in the final decision. This layout provides for some unique capabilities. For
example, the community chooses and funds TerraCredit developers after the community
approves their work.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

How Masternodes Vote
Masternodes can communicate with the network via their wallet Dapp. Masternodes have
access to commands inside their wallet and various tools. Each time a masternode votes
on an issue, it propagates across the network, validates, and then becomes a blockchain
object.
TerraCredit Proposal Lifecycle
Every proposal within the TerraCredit ecosystem receives a fair and balanced review from
the network. As such, there is a clean-cut process in which each project must follow.
First, the proposal goes before the community discussion. Here the concept is introduced to the community. There will be attention paid to its overall goals, functionalities,
and specifics. Here is also where members can provide valuable feedback and first
impressions.
After its introduction, a proposal will go to the forum. A forum post helps describe the
concept in more concrete terms. This description includes the details of the strategy laid
out. The community carefully vets these proposals to see if they fit into the overall
direction of the network.
If the proposal continues to gain momentum, it becomes a proposal post.
A proposal post is a forum post that has undergone vetting from the community and is
ready for further discussion. This post gets paired with a proposal added to the blockchain. Ideally, this proposal must be made more than 72 hours from the next superblock
for masternode holders to vote on it.
Let the People Decide
Finally, the proposal goes before the masternodes, and the voting process begins. For a
project to pass, 50% of active voters must submit a vote on the concept. The final
approval of a proposal will require that the total yes votes minus no votes exceed 10% of
the total masternodes.
Whenever a proposal passes, an additional fee of 5 CREDITs is required to implement it.
Once approved, the implementation comes with the next superblock making this system
highly efficient.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

Masternode Acquisition
Operating a TerraCredit masternode requires a person to meet specific criteria. Master
Masternodes have unique capabilities and responsibilities within the network. For their extra
service, these nodes receive additional compensation in the form of CREDIT rewards.
To qualify as a masternode, a person must hold at least 50,000 CREDIT stored in their
masternode controlling wallet. These CREDITs must remain unspent. If the person
spends any of these coins, they will lose their masternode status and all the benefits
associated with it.
The 50,000 CREDITs requirement serves multiple purposes. Primarily, it ensures long
term node participation. It also creates vested interests on the part of nodes to see the
network expand. Critically, this requirement makes it nearly impossible for a single entity
to host enough masternodes to achieve the 51% necessary to corrupt the governance of
the network. Additionally, Masternode operators must have a static IP address.
Dynamic IPs cannot participate because they cannot remain in constant contact with the
TerraCredit blockchain. Also, masternodes must maintain a reliable and stable internet
connection. Consequently, hosting two masternodes cannot be accomplished without a
secondary IP address.
Setting Up a Masternode
Technical experience is a plus for those seeking to set up a masternode. Masternodes
can run on Linux machines, through a server host, or devices such as the Raspberry Pi.
Regardless of the hardware, the set up requires some technical know-how such as the
editing of a .conf file, allocation of a new wallet address, and other actions executed by
Linux command console. Masternode operators will also need to practice private key
management, the setting up of a firewall, a physically protected machine, and other
security measures to ensure they remain valid.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

Masternode Staking Reward Program
TerraCredit's use of a dual tiered network provides users with some significant advantages over the competition. The TerraCredit ecosystem enables both staking and masternode tiers to maintain the health of the network. Consequently, both offer rewards, albeit
slightly different. In general, a masternode receives rewards more consistently than
someone who stakes their coins. A masternode has several qualities that set it apart
from a staking wallet:
· It requires 50,000 CREDIT to be left unusable by the holder
· It must have Internet Connectivity.
· It requires a Separate IP address Linked to the User's Wallet
For those who want more flexibility, there are advantages to staking over hosting a
masternode. These include:
· The ability to opt-in and out of staking as the user pleases.
· No Minimum CREDIT amount.
· The option to divide up holdings between addresses.
· No requirements on specific denomination (masternode 50,000 requirement)

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

COIN SPECIFICATIONS
Coin name: TerraCredit
Coin abbreviation: CREDIT
Algorithm: Quark
Address letter: T
RPC port: 43796
P2P port: 43795
Block type: Proof of Stake
Block size: 2 MB
Block Time: 60 Seconds (Re-targeting every block)
Coin Emission Rate: Max. 20 CREDIT per block (Always less due to
burnt fees & unused treasury). 19 CREDIT allocates as
staking/masternode rewards, and 1 to superblock budget payout.
Coin Supply Control: All transaction & zCREDIT minting fees burnt
from coin supply
Coin supply: 86 million coins
Pre-mine amount: 100 m coins
Burn amount: 14m coins
Post-Swap amount: 86 m coins (ratio 1000:1)
Pre-Swap amount: 86 b coins
Privacy Technology: Custom zCREDIT coming in September 2020
Key Features: Custom accumulator check-pointing system
Maximum Coin Supply: • Transaction speed: less than 1 second
PoS Stake Eligibility
Minimum Input Age: 60 blocks
Reward Maturity Confirms: 101 confirms
Wallet Status: Requires wallet kept running & online
Transaction Send Eligibility Minimum Confirm: 6 confirms
Masternode: 50,000 Credit collateral
Master node confirms: 15

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

TEAM

DANIELE MARCO RONCHESE
FOUNDER

SAMUEL DOKUN
FRANCHISEE

ENER OCTAVIO BUITRAGO CAMELO
FRANCHISEE

OGECHI NNADI
COMMUNITY MANAGER

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

MARCO SIMONETTI
FINANCIAL MANAGER

OLUWASEUN BAMGBADE
FINANCIAL CONTROLLER

RUSLAN KURBATOV
SUPPORT AGENT

SEUN GEORGE
SUPPORT MANAGER

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

ROADMAP
TheTerra concept began years ago. During that time, our team made significant progress.
We are excited to share the CREDIT roadmap and bring you up to date with the
development so far.
16 November 2018 – Complete
Initial commit to Github with the final working source code. The genesis block was mined
and included a pre-mine of 30.4 Billion coins using Proof of Work.
18 November 2018 – Complete
The last PoW block was mined (Block height 10,000), and the blockchain switched to
Proof of Stake only.
24 November 2018 – Complete
Windows, Linus, MAC, and Raspbian GUI full node staking wallets compiled and uploaded
to the web for free download.
4 December 2018 – Complete
Global Airdrop : Round 1 – Base reward 100,000 coins and unlimited referral of 5,000 per
new user.
4 January 2019 – Complete
Global Airdrop : Round 2 – Base reward 90,000 coins and unlimited referral of 5,000 per
new user.
4 February 2019 – Complete
Global Airdop : Round 3 – Base reward 80,000 coins and unlimited referral of 5,000 per
new user.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

6 February 2018 – Complete
Web-based block explorer goes live, with full api. Includes: https://terra.credit
27 February 2018 – Complete
Bitcointalk Forum Announcement: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5114929.0
29 February 2019 – Complete
Web-based CRM setup, https://terra-hub.com (Social network which rewarded users with
coins for all actions. Including referral of new users)
4 March 2019 – Complete
Global Airdrop: Round 4 – Base reward 70,000 coins and unlimited referral of 5,000 per
new user.
4 April 2019 – Complete
Global Airdrop: Round 5 – Base reward 60,000 coins and unlimited referral of 5,000 per
new user.
4 May 2019 – Complete
Global Airdrop: Round 6 – Base reward 50,000 coins and unlimited referral of 5,000 per
new user
.
27 May 2019 – Complete
Web and Android-based wallet set up for mobile users, https://terra-wallet.com and
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=terrawallet.com.walletbeta&gl=ZA
4 June 2019 – Complete
Global Airdrop: Round 7 – Base reward 40,000 coins and unlimited referral of 5,000 per
new user.
18 June 2019 – Complete
Credit (CREDIT) listed at Bitforex Exchange here
https://bitforex.com/en/spot/credit_usdt
4 July 2019 – Complete
Global Airdrop: Round 8 – Base reward 30,000 coins and unlimited referral of 5,000 per
new user.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

28 July 2019 – Complete
Credit (CREDIT) listed as an official tracked asset on CoinMarketCap here
https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/credit/
29 July 2019 – Complete
Terracex – Exchange launched (Which has grown into Terrabit) https://terra-bit.io
4 August 2019 – Complete
Global Airdrop : Round 9 – Base reward 20,000 coins and unlimited referral of 5,000 per
new user.
4 Septemeber 2019 – Complete
Global Airdrop : Round 10 – Base reward 10,000 coins and unlimited referral of 1,500 per
new user.
4 October 2019 – Complete
Global Giveaway: Airdrop closes after 10 successful rounds, 380,000 users gained and
30B coins claimed.
1 December 2019 – Complete
Credit (CREDIT) Celebrates 1 year of block production.
1 December 2019 – Complete
Final distribution and KYC qualifications. Distribution Close.
3 January 2020 – Complete
Terrabit launched as a web-based platform that absorbed TerraceX, and Tellus-Pay with
full functionality for users and merchants.
10 March 2020 – Complete
Terrabit – Lite is launched in PlayStore:
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.app.terrabitt&gl=ZA
13 April 2020 – Complete
TerraCredit new website launch: https://terra-credit.com

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

1 May 2020
Terrabit API Ticker Data Update for interacting with the exchange only for public market
data.
The HTTP API allows read access to public market data through the public endpoint
Public HTTP Endpoint: https://app.terra-bit.io/api/public
1 June 2020
Terrabit API Chart Data Update for interacting with the exchange only for public market
data.
The HTTP API allows read access to public market data through the public endpoint
Public HTTP Endpoint: https://app.terra-bit.io/api/public
30 June 2020
Press Release: TerraCredit Hardfork Official Announcement, across all news and social
media channels. It’s advised all users to deposit their coins to Terrabit or participating
exchanges to ensure that their balance swaps to the new chain between 4 – 7 August
2020.
30 June 2020
Whitepaper major update with the pending Hardfork in mind. The update includes specifications and new features. These upgrades include anonymity, master nodes, and more
info on our fundraising activities planned for later in the year.
28 July 2020
Terrabit celebrates its 1st anniversary of trading. Stay tuned for all the information about
promos to help us celebrate.
31 July 2020
Credit Hardfork: New coin/daemon name changes from credit to Terracredit symbol
remains CREDIT. Lower supply revised mining rewards and the addition of master nodes.
Full specs available in whitepaper update. Swap rate: 1000 : 1, fixed reward of 20 CREDIT
per block, 1 block per 60 seconds, 50/50 split with master nodes. 10% Superblock reward
for Governance. Proposals and voting will see TerraCredit turn into a DAO Decentralized
Autonomous Organisation that will only produce 1 Billion coins over the next 100 years.

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

1 August 2020
Credit Hardfork: Is live and chain swaps will take place primarily at Terrabit and other
major exchanges. There will be a short period of downtime as our partner exchanges
update their nodes and the swap should be automatic across all markets, wallets etc.
Coinmarketcap and Coingecko will also update with the new supply and distribution
information.
1 August 2020
TerraCedit Hardfork Swap : Legacy CREDIT Deposit Round – 1 August 2020 | Old CREDIT
swaps to new chain at a rate of 1,000 : 1 in favor of the new chain. Simply send your
coins to any participating exchange or Terrabit and the swap is instant. Swap takes place
on 1 August and no swap will be honored past that date.
15 August 2020
New development roadmap and whitepaper will be released.
GET CREDIT

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

CONCLUSION
In closing, we are confident that the combination of advanced Blockchain technology and
simplified user access will be a strong proponent for the success of Credit in new markets. Credit offers fast and virtually free transactions on an energy-efficient Blockchain
that costs very little to support.

CREDITS
Literary References:
1. Bitcoin Whitepaper: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
2. Peercoin Whitepaper: https://peercoin.net/whitepapers/peercoin-paper.pdf
3. Wikipedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof-of-stake
Opensource Technology:
Bitcoin: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin
Litecoin : https://github.com/litecoin-project/litecore-litecoin
Zerocoin (zCASH) : https://github.com/zcoinofficial/zcoin
PIVX: https://github.com/PIVX-Project/
https://pivx.org/white-papers-2/

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

CONTACT DETAILS
Project Name: TerraCredit DAO
Coin name: TerraCredit (CREDIT)
Website: https://terra-credit.com
Email: info@terra-credit.com
Nelson Mandela Square.
West Tower, 2nd Floor,
Maude Street,
Sandton,
Johannesburg,
South Africa, 2196
T: + 2711 881 5566
E: info@terra-credit.com
Terra Credit | Updates: https://t.me/terracreditupdates (Our update channel, latest news,
network status and upgrades)
Terra Credit | Telegram group: https://t.me/terracredit
(Our main and original community channel, you need to be in this channel to claim Credit
in any round).
Terra Credit | Price Discussion: https://t.me/Terracreditprice
This group facilitates speculative discussion relating to the price of TerraCredit
(CREDIT).
FaceBook | https://www.facebook.com/pg/Terra-Credit-Project
Twitter | https://twitter.com/TerraCredit
Explorer: https://explorer.terra-credit.com
Source: https://github.com/CREDIT-2-0/TerraCredit

Credit: Designed for Mass Adoption
https://terra-credit.com

