Version 1.0
© 2019 Tokoin. All rights reserved.

Table of Contents
Disclaimer …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..2
Abstract …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 5
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

Background ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 7
1.1.

Industry Overview …………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 8

1.2.

Problems ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 9

1.3.

Challenges …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 12

1.4.

Solution ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 12

1.5.

Mission ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 14

About Tokoin ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 15
2.1.

Overview ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 16

2.2.

Value Proposition ………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 16

2.3.

Characteristic of Tokoin ……………………………………………………………………………………………. 17

2.4.

Ecosystem …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 18

2.5.

How to a Get Digital Identity …………………………………………………………………………………….. 21

2.6.

How to Get data …………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 23

Token Economy ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………... 25
3.1.

TOKO Token ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 26

3.2.

TOKO Incentive Pool ………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 28

Product & Technology …………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 29
4.1.

Technological Aspects ……………………………………………………………………………………………… 30

4.2.

Features ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 32

4.3.

Products ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 33

Fundraising Plan …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 34
5.1 Roadmap …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 35
5.2 Token Distribution …………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 36
5.3 Team …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 38

6.

Business Partners ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 41

7.

Reference ..………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 44

PAGE 1

Disclaimer
PLEASE REVIEW CAREFULLY THE PRESENT SECTION OF “DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY”. IF YOU
HAVE ANY DOUBTS AS TO WHAT ACTIONS YOU SHOULD TAKE, WE RECOMMEND THAT YOU
CONSULT WITH YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S). No part of
this Whitepaper is to be reproduced, distributed or disseminated without including this section
“Disclaimer of Liability”. The sole purpose of this Whitepaper is to present Tokoin and TOKO Tokens
to potential Token holders in connection with the proposed ICO. The information is provided for
INFORMING PURPOSES only. It may not be exhaustive and does not imply any elements of a
contractual relationship or obligations. Despite the fact that we make every effort to ensure the
accuracy, up-to-dateness, and relevance of any material in this Whitepaper, this document and
materials contained herein are not professional advice and in no way constitute the provision of
professional advice of any kind. Furthermore, Tokoin reserves the right to modify or update this
Whitepaper and information contained herein at any moment and without notice. To the maximum
extent permitted by any applicable laws, regulations and rules, Tokoin does not guarantee or accept
legal responsibility of any nature, for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential, or other losses
of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or
proﬁts, and loss of use or data), arising from or related to the accuracy, reliability, relevance, or
completeness of any material contained in this Whitepaper. Furthermore, Tokoin does not make or
purport to make, and hereby disclaims, any representation, warranty, or undertaking in any form
whatsoever to any entity, person, or authority, including any representation, warranty or undertaking
in relation to the truth, accuracy, and completeness of any of the information set out in this
Whitepaper. You should contact relevant independent professional advisors before relying or
making any commitments or transactions based on the material published in this Whitepaper. This
Whitepaper is not subject to any legal system and is not governed by any law. No regulatory
authority has examined or approved of any of the information set out in this Whitepaper, and no
such action has been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements, or rules of any
jurisdiction.

PAGE 2

Disclaimer
The publication, distribution, or dissemination of this Whitepaper does not imply that the applicable
laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with. You do not have the right and
should not buy TOKO Tokens if you are: (i) A green card holder of the United States of America, or
(ii) a citizen or a resident (tax or otherwise) of the United States of America, Puerto Rico, the Virgin
Islands of United States, or any other possessions of the United States of America, Singapore,
People’s Republic of China or South Korea, or a person of that state, or (iii) a citizen or resident (tax
or otherwise) of any country or territory where transactions with digital Tokens and/or digital
currencies are prohibited or in any other manners restricted by applicable laws. (“Person” is
generally deﬁned as a natural person residing in the relevant state or any entity organized or
incorporated under the laws of the relevant state). Purchased Tokens cannot be offered, distributed,
or resold or otherwise alienated by their holders to mentioned persons. It is your sole responsibility
to establish, by consulting (if necessary) with your legal, tax, accounting, or other professional
advisors, what requirements and limitations, if any, apply to your particular jurisdiction and ensure
that you have observed and complied with all restrictions at your own expense and without liability
to Tokoin. TOKO Tokens are not and will not be intended to constitute securities, digital currency,
commodity, or any other kinds of ﬁnancial instruments and have not been registered under relevant
securities regulations, including the securities laws of any jurisdiction in which a potential Token
holder is a resident. This Whitepaper is not a prospectus or a proposal, and its purpose is not to
serve as a security offer or request for investments in the form of securities in any jurisdiction.
However, in spite of the above, legislation of certain jurisdictions may, now or in the future,
recognize TOKO Tokens as securities. Tokoin does not accept any liability for such recognition
and\or any legal and other consequences of such recognition for potential owners of TOKO Tokens
or provide any opinions or advice regarding the acquisition, sale or other operations using TOKO
Tokens, and the fact of the provision of this Whitepaper does not form the basis of or should not be
relied on in matters related to the conclusion of contracts or acceptance of investment decisions.
This Whitepaper does not oblige anyone to enter into any contract, to take legal obligations with
respect to the sale or purchase of TOKO Tokens, or to accept any cryptocurrency or another form of
payment.

PAGE 3

Disclaimer
Potential owners of TOKO Tokens are advised to contact relevant independent professional
advisors on the above matters. Certain statements, estimates, and ﬁnancial information contained
herein constitute forward-looking statements or information. Such forward-looking statements or
information involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual events or
results to differ materially from the estimates or the results implied or expressed in such
forward-looking statements. Furthermore, all examples of calculation of income and proﬁts used in
this paper were provided only for demonstration purposes or for demonstrating the industry's
averages. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing contained in this Whitepaper is or may be relied on as
a guarantee, promise, representation, or undertaking as to the future performance of Tokoin and/or
TOKO Tokens, and/or a promise or guarantee for future proﬁt resulting from the purchase of TOKO
Tokens. TOKO Tokens cannot be used for any purposes other than as provided in this Whitepaper,
including but not limited to any investment, speculation, or other ﬁnancial purposes. TOKO Tokens
confer no other rights in any form, including but not limited to any ownership, distribution (including,
but not limited to, proﬁt), redemption, liquidation, property (including all forms of intellectual
property), or other ﬁnancial or legal rights other than those speciﬁcally set forth below. While the
community's opinions and feedback can be taken into account, the possession of TOKO Tokens
does not give any right to participate in decision-making or any direction of business related to
Tokoin’s services. The section "Risk Factors" below does not include all risks that Tokoin project can
face. While Tokoin’s team does itheir best to identify main risks, you are advised to do your own risk
assessment before making a decision on purchasing TOKO Tokens. English language of this
Whitepaper is the primary oﬃcial source of information about TOKO Tokens, and any information
contained herein may from time to time be translated into other languages or used in the course of
written or oral communications with customers, contractors, partners, etc. In the course of such
translation or communication, some of the information contained herein may be lost, corrupted, or
misrepresented. In the event of any conﬂicts or inconsistencies between such translations and
communications and this English language of Whitepaper, the provision of this English language of
Whitepaper as the original document shall prevail. By continuing reading this Whitepaper and/or by
making any further steps related to solicitation of information about Tokoin’s ICO and\or the
purchase of TOKO Tokens, you conﬁrm that you have read, understood, accepted, and agreed with
the above section "Disclaimer of Liability".

PAGE 4

Abstract
Technology has shrunk time and space. Hence, businesses are always advancing their
processes using technology to achieve eﬃciency. Blockchain technology, developed as a
distributed ledger of transaction, works as a platform to facilitate the distribution of information
between participants involved by creating a distributed database. Data information distributed
on the Blockchain is a valuable asset, and blockchain acts as a system that secures the data.
Every business transaction consists of a set of data, among which are the participants, buyers
and sellers, orders, payment method, the amount of discount, and detailed payment invoices. In
an online marketplace, the set of data are stored centrally on the marketplace’s platform.
Adapting the data in a blockchain-based platform, all information is accurately recorded using
cryptography and stored in blocks.
The trading ecosystem is about to implement Tokoin as a highway of data distribution. By
recording transactions on Tokoin, all participants involved are guaranteed a secure ecosystem
of blockchain with Tokens as signs of credibility scoring. Every participant will beneﬁt
depending on his/hero own needs. Partners get relevant data, while users as the downstream
participants will beneﬁt from access to business expansion and funding opportunities. In the
transaction stage, Tokoin provides a permanent record of information and transactions. The
accuracy is guaranteed, for each transaction recorded is traceable and immutable. Tokoin will
operate as an infrastructure that stores data in a decentralised manner. After MSMEs as users
input their proﬁle and transaction data properly, they can secure their reputation proﬁle. As a
note, data from users will be validated as valuable assets. Partners as service providers stack
Tokens to acquire the data to determine the credibility of their prospective clients.
We have made an important positive development to welcome more participants in our
ecosystem. With the proposed ideas and approach to utilise data distribution for credit scoring
and business growth, Tokoin aims to bring an elevation in the economic growth by leveraging
and sustaining MSMEs as the powerful driver of a country’s economy in the emerging markets.

PAGE 5

”

The brutal fact is that there is no
infrastructure for MSMEs to
leverage their business by
creating valuable data and digital
assets to build a valid reputation.

PAGE 6
PAGE 6

Industry Overview 1.1
Problems 1.2
Unavailability of Data 1.2.1
High Barriers to Funding 1.2.2
Scaling Up in the Emerging Markets 1.2.3
The Absence of Reputation 1.2.4
Challenges 1.3
Solution 1.4
Establishment of Business Proﬁle 1.4.1
Provision of Access to Funding 1.4.2
Scaling Up through Access to Expansion Opportunities 1.4.3
Mission 1.5

PAGE 7

1.1. Industry Overview
Not only known as the economic driving force behind developing countries, MSMEs have also
become the growth and innovation drivers for global economic expansion. They account for 90
percent of the world’s registered businesses and have made signiﬁcant contributions to production,
job creation, exports, and the bridging of income gaps, particularly in developing economies. Having
unique characteristics and being small-sized, they are highly ﬂexible and better than corporations at
adapting to the rapidly changing business environment.
The United Nations (UN) has stated that there is no universally accepted deﬁnition for the Micro,
Small, and Medium Enterprises. Each country has a different deﬁnition based on many
characteristics that differentiate them from other business segments. Indonesia classiﬁes MSMEs
according to the MSME Act of 2008, which is based on their asset possession and annual revenue.
Accordingly, an enterprise is deemed micro in size if its annual revenue is less than IDR300M
(~C$28,000), considered small with an annual revenue of between IDR300M and IDR2.5B
(~C$234,000), and regarded as medium if it generates an annual revenue of more than IDR2.5B2.
Excluding unregistered entities, MSMEs alone have contributed up to 40 percent of GDP in emerging
economies and up to 60 percent of total employment. The governments of many countries have
also put the growth of MSMEs as a top priority, intending to create 600 million jobs needed by 2030
to meet global demand. However, there is still a question of how existing MSMEs will sustain and
survive in today’s economy as 40% of formal MSMEs in developing countries have unmet ﬁnancing
needs to support business growth and operations3.
Indonesia is one of the countries in Southeast Asia which has huge untapped MSME potential. The
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology states that Indonesia has 59.2 million
people currently running MSMEs4. The increased number of MSMEs each year has raised the ‘ease
of doing business’ indicator and boosted Indonesia’s position from the 120th to 72nd between 2015
and 2018 according to the World Bank’s rating. The number of Indonesian MSMEs that are operating
independently keeps growing persistently each year, even when there is neither access to credit
ﬁnance nor governmental support. Despite the multiplied number, in 2015, only 27.4% of Indonesian
ﬁrms had a bank loan or a credit line, and only 12.8% of business investment was ﬁnanced by bank
loans5.

PAGE 8

However, many external factors have hindered MSMEs from living up to their potential. For instance,
their small-scale operations are vulnerable to deterioration in highly competitive business
environment where the economies of scale in large production provide a competitive advantage.
Moreover, they face diﬃculties in gaining support from governmental institutions, and this results in
high costs of borrowing and, consequently, few resources to draw on during struggling times. To
make matters worse, MSME-related issues regarding collateral and alignment with international
ﬁnancial standards complicate lending applications. As a result, established ﬁnancial institutions
have less experience in lending to small businesses and often negatively perceive this to be a more
complicated investment than what it ought to be.
1.2. Problems
1.2.1. Unavailability of Data
Leveraging data has become an important part of modern business. Unfortunately, many MSMEs
are still behind the curve when it comes to understanding the data they have and how the data can
help them in decision-making. In the case of some MSMEs, this comes out as no surprise.
Businesses like local restaurants and hair salons are largely oﬄine and/or lack systems to collect
data. Even when data are available, these are often siloed by the stakeholders in the industry.
Nothing is shared, so there is no tangible beneﬁt to the industry. In other cases, data are collected
but not utilized due to a lack of data science expertise. Big Data, as they are popularly known, have
become dominated by the largest corporations which have the resources to collect, store, and
process a vast amount of diverse data.
1.2.2 High Barriers to Funding
Since the ﬁnancial crisis, banks have grown skeptical of lending to MSMEs. They follow a commonly
held stereotype that MSMEs do not have enough cash ﬂow to make the loan payments. Overall,
ﬁnancial inclusion is still low in emerging markets as 70% of MSMEs still lack access to ﬁnancing
opportunities. This is often encountered because, as relatively new or small businesses, most
MSMEs lack proper legal documentation, collateral, and/or long-term credit history. Those in rural
areas also lack physical access to formal ﬁnancial institutions. Even if this access exists, the cost of
borrowing would be beyond their ability to pay.

PAGE 9

Figure 1.1 Credit Portion of MSMEs VS Corporations

Credit is the lifeline of MSMEs since it helps them cope with unexpected market conditions and
delays in payments by their forward supply chain, secure working capital for day-to-day operations,
and face other ﬁnancial dynamics to ensure their business survival.
Ironically, despite the huge number of MSMEs, the system of national licensing remains complex for
the MSMEs to get authorization, and more than half of the operating MSMEs are enduring in the
micro, informal sectors. As micro enterprises, many of them have to resort to individual funding
when establishing their business. While MSMEs are, in fact, the dominant form of business entities,
they start their business with a quite small funding and operate with limited facilities.

PAGE 10

Figure 2.2

Figure 1.2 Business Permit Ownership

1.2.3. Scaling Up in the Emerging Markets
Most MSMEs do not produce enough to take advantage of the economies of scale. They also have
low order volume, which means that they hold little leverage with suppliers and do no receive
volume discounts. This results in higher production and transaction costs compared to large
enterprises. Also, unlike corporations who have whole departments dedicated to procurement and
ﬁnance, MSMEs have fewer resources to search for better suppliers or appropriate ﬁnancing.
International expansion is similarly problematic. Large corporations can tap into rich global
networks and leverage their low production costs to offer competitive products in any market they
enter. MSMEs, on the other hand, lack these valuable networks and often struggle to compete in
new markets.
The government of Indonesia has taken signiﬁcant measures to increase access to ﬁnancial aids
for MSMEs. Most importantly, these include the requirement for all banks to allocate 20% of their
business loans to SMEs. Still, this does not solve the credit gap. The chart shows the gap between
credit portions allocated by different ﬁnancial institutions. There is such a huge difference in
numbers between how much corporations are able to receive in terms of business loans and the
loan portion for MSMEs. Access to ﬁnancing is frequently identiﬁed as a critical barrier to growth for
MSMEs. Creating opportunities for MSMEs in the emerging markets is a key avenue towards
advancing economic development and reducing poverty. The private and public sectors can better
address this matter if they have better insights about the magnitude and nature of the ﬁnancial gap.

PAGE 11

The MSME environment has its own characteristics, such as a small number of employees, simple
procedures of traditional manufacturing, manual methods of recording transactions, and typical
operations in domestic and retail sectors. MSMEs’ business status is also unseen and unreputable
due to the unfulﬁlled registration requirements. Indonesia’s business license and permit system is
fairly complex and leads to Indonesia’s low position (144th) in the World Bank’s speciﬁc Doing
Business indicator of “starting a business”6.
1.2.4. The Absence of Reputation
Given those problems, MSMEs often feel trapped in a cycle of high costs, minimal ﬁnancial support,
and tough competition. At the root of this cycle is a lack of trust. Suppliers do not trust them, banks
do not trust them, and, ultimately, customers do not trust them. What is missing is a way for MSMEs
to build a reputation that engenders trust and opens up access to a wide variety of services that
promote growth.
Addressing all the problems above, we need a trusted platform that can give opportunities for
MSMEs to establish a reputation proﬁle that helps them build trust with banks, suppliers, and
ﬁnancial service providers. This way, the business growth of MSMEs can be accelerated, while
simultaneously more job opportunities are opened.
1.3. Challenges
A recurring problem for new or existing MSMEs is that they lack the capital needed to boost
productivity. Because many MSMEs are dependent on labor-intensive operations (and not
capital-intensive), the limitations of labor-dependent production have hampered their growth.
Without the capital needed for business expansion, the economies of scale may seem unattainable
for small-scale businesses that are struggling to stay in the competitive market. This can and will
negatively affect Indonesia’s economy that is dependent on those MSMEs.
1.4. Solution
Tokoin ﬁnds an opportunity to create a trusted and reputable proﬁle for MSMEs by assembling
non-ﬁnancial data from MSMEs, such as the data submitted in the KYC protocol to be developed
into a Digital Business ID. All the business data from daily operations which are previously scattered
will also be transformed into a Digital Ledger to strengthen the digital proﬁle of each business and
grant it a solid reputation.

PAGE 12

1.4.1. Establishment of Business Proﬁles
Tokoin platform gives MSMEs the opportunity to establish a reputation proﬁle that helps them build
trust from banks, suppliers, and other service providers. It is a solution that levels up the playing
ﬁeld so that MSMEs can get access to services that were previously unavailable. MSMEs which, for
example, struggle to secure loans will now have a solution that allows them to approach banks with
conﬁdence. Service providers, in turn, will be given access to the reputation proﬁles of a diverse
network of trusted MSMEs. They will be able to check these MSMEs’ reputation data at the tap of a
button to help them make more timely and informed decisions. Additionally, with the revenue
generated from data requests going directly to the MSMEs, it will be a win-win solution for both
sides.
1.4.2. Provision of Access to Funding
One of the main barriers that most MSMEs face to survive in today’s economy is funding, while it is
actually the power source for MSMEs to enable better productivity and answer the call for business
expansion. Apparently, there are several terms and conditions set by the banks which MSMEs, in
most cases, are not able to fulﬁll. One of them is credibility. MSMEs with lack of business proﬁles
have been neglected in the emerging markets. To illustrate, start-ups are one of the business
sectors that sprout recently in the society, and most of them were established just recently. Thus,
they commonly have less than 5 years of operation and experience.
For that short duration of running time, most start-ups and MSMEs do not have the perfect
credibility to fulﬁll the requirements to apply for a loan. In order to gain the credibility required by
banks’ regulations, MSMEs need to complete their credentials. The document veriﬁcation referred
above is a business proﬁle veriﬁcation, a standard process which requires MSMEs to comply with
the details.
1.4.3. Scaling Up through Access to Expansion Opportunities
Through a blockchain network, information data containing business transactions can be veriﬁed in
the ecosystem. Tokoin utilizes data recorded in the blockchain network as a valid metric for building
a business reputation. In other words, this reputation will be built based on a client’s buying behavior
in trading activities, and this information will become an important part of the client’s proﬁle. With
this mindset, Tokoin is able to transform an accurate record of data into a valuable asset that
MSMEs can use as a leverage to make up for their lack of conditions that can satisfy lending
requirements, such as credibility scoring. This will let MSMEs as users get access to the ﬁnancial
services needed to achieve business growth.

PAGE 13

OUR MISSION is to facilitate trustworthy
data exchanges in a speciﬁed platform so
that MSMEs will be able to meet their needs
for ﬁnancing and business services without
complicating intermediaries. The more
prosperous MSMEs’ economy will lead to
the sustainability of a country’s economy.

PAGE 14

Overview 2.1
Value Proposition 2.2
Building a Digital Identity for MSMEs that represents a valid reputation. 2.2.1
Accommodating MSMEs to utilize their data to create more funding opportunities. 2.2.2
Providing growth opportunities for MSMEs by bringing business partnerships. 2.2.3
Characteristics of Tokoin 2.3
Digital Identity 2.3.1
Digital Ledger 2.3.2
Ecosystem 2.4
Participants’ Roles 2.4.1
Participants’ Functions 2.4.2
Business Flow 2.5

PAGE 15

2.1. Overview
Tokoin is a platform that establishes the identity of MSMEs as an acceptable reputation in the
business ecosystem. Tokoin presents a better and modern business ecosystem that offers valuable
partnerships to address inclusive growth. As a platform, Tokoin captures and processes business
information from the users as a valuable asset, which, in our ecosystem, translates into a marker for
trusted reputation of the MSMEs as our users. This enables them to access previously inaccessible
ﬁnancial business services from providers, which act as our partners. Therefore, Tokoin links the
business and ﬁnancial sectors to launch a scheme of ﬁnancial inclusion. The partnerships formed in
Tokoin will subsequently contribute to the national economic growth.
2.2. Value Proposition
Tokoin: A trusted solution
Tokoin offers a trusted solution that can help MSMEs in solving the problems they are facing in three
ways.
2.2.1. Building a Digital Identity for MSMEs that Represents a Valid Reputation
Business proﬁles, activities, and buying behaviors are key elements for SMEs to generate valuable
assets on Tokoin’s platform. Tokoin’s platform works by compiling data, starting from the KYC
process, routine transactions, records of behavior, to the creation of credibility for Tokoin’s users.
2.2.2. Accommodating MSMEs to Utilize Their Data to Create More Funding Opportunities
Tokoin provides a suitable technology infrastructure that records and manages data of transactions
and leverage the data by putting value into them.
2.2.3. Providing Growth Opportunities for MSMEs by Bringing Business Partnerships
Tokoin’s partnerships with various institutions allow users to access the services they need. On the
users’ side, Tokoin will allow them to build their reputation and credibility by keeping track of their
behaviors, so they will be able to reach any ﬁnancial institutions for the purpose of business
expansion. Meanwhile, ﬁnancial institutions will beneﬁt from an effective buyer acquisition process
by attributing to the business credit reputation of Tokoin’s users.

PAGE 16

2.3 Characteristics of Tokoin
2.3.1. Digital Identity (Business Proﬁles)
To address MSMEs’ needs for reputable and valid identities, Tokoin utilizes the digital sector as a
facility and privilege. By obtaining a Digital Business ID, MSMEs are able to record and keep track
of their business processes in a digital ledger, while simultaneously distributing the credit scoring
that they are building to other partners in the ecosystem of Tokoin. This is the decentralized nature
of the blockchain technology, in which there is no central point of authority that records the data.
Applying the blockchain technology in a business process, Tokoin aims to create an ecosystem
which is powered by data distribution and concurrently beneﬁtting the participants.

Brand or service providers
can access users’ proﬁles

Brand or service providers are
able to see business reputation

Brand or service providers are
able to see real-time business transactions
Brand or service providers are
able to see aﬃliate networks

PAGE 17

2.3.2. Digital ledger (data)
All of the transaction data from business operations by MSMEs as our users are going to be kept
digitally and simultaneously in a computerized record called a digital ledger. Any information,
starting from the KYC (which is to identify the initial business proﬁle) to more detailed information,
such as cash ﬂow, sales and earnings, and routine business purchases, will be recorded as valuable
assets. These assets will also be compiled, processed, and given value according to the depth of
the information contained. The value embedded to the data can serve as an indicator of credit
scoring that builds the reputation related to a business’ proﬁle. With the underlying technology of
our platform, the data in the digital ledger are possible to be distributed in our ecosystem to
generate interrelationships between all participants.

2.4. Ecosystem
These three circles consist with Tokoin
partners classiﬁcation, chart showing
the interaction for each participant
inside tokoin platform
Financial intermediaries:
●
Banks
●
Multiﬁnance
Supplier:
●
Brands
●
Companies
●
Logistics partners
Service Provider:
●
Consulting
●
Property Agent
●
Advertisers

Tokoin ecosystem consists of an order of arrangement to convey the experience of distributing
values from one participants to another. Each participant holds a determining role in order to keep
the ecosystem fruitful to every business involved. The interaction between Tokoin user and partners
is enabled by the blockchain technology to ensure every participant with security to every
transaction and a more trustworthy relationship, resulting to valuable partnership between every
partakers. In the business activity of Tokoin. MSME as the data provider, submit their transaction
data activity through Tokoin dApp. Tokoin process and validate the data into valuable asset.
Partners can acquire the data by staking Toko tokens.

PAGE 18

2.4.1. Participants’ Roles
2.4.1.1. MSMEs
Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises are at the core of Tokoin’s ecosystem. To start using the
Tokoin’s platform, MSMEs will create a business account as their Digital Business Identity. As
Tokoin’s users, their activities on Tokoin’s platform mainly revolved around recording their business
activities through Tokoin’s app which can be accessed via mobile phones. These business records
are then processed in a Digital Ledger and compiled in their Digital Business ID.
The transaction data that they record become the fuel to run the ecosystem. For every set of data
recorded, they earn TOKO Tokens as a direct incentive. The amount of the TOKO Tokens collected
determines their credit scoring. Once their Digital Business ID reaches a certain amount of credit
scores, they are able to access business facilities provided by Tokoin’s partners.
2.4.1.2. Financial Intermediaries
In Tokoin, banks can accord their credit allocation for MSMEs. As loan providers, banks are the
most likely to serve clients who have a good reputation. Tokoin aims at providing a reputation
establishment by capturing the MSMEs’ transaction data to build their credit scoring. In Tokoin’s
ecosystem, banks are Tokoin’s partners which accommodate the ecosystem with their business
facilities for MSMEs. Financial intermediaries can sort their potential clients from Tokoin’s users by
accessing the data containing KYC materials and transaction history on Tokoin’s platform.
2.4.1.3. Suppliers
Tokoin will act as a data custodian partner in online and off-line transactions to generate a data
transaction ledger. Suppliers can also access the data containing KYC materials and transaction
history on Tokoin’s platform to get insights about the characteristics and behaviours of the MSMEs
as business buyers. Accordingly, suppliers and brand companies can market their products to the
targeted business buyers.
2.4.1.4. Service Providers
In helping MSMEs, Tokoin is also supported by partners who provide ﬁnancial and business
services, such as business loans and credit, insurance services, logistic, shipping, and
warehousing. As Tokoin’s users, MSMEs may be able to choose any relevant business services
based on their preferences and development plan. On the side of service providers, they are able to
closely monitor the MSMEs by accessing their data and learning the overview about their potential
clients.

PAGE 19

Indirect Participants
As the platform ecosystem expands, this will engage more participants to collaborate to the
platform usage and make use of the data accumulated in the platform.. Indirect participants are
any potential institutions that wish to access the data generated in the Tokoin platform. Research
companies, government institutions can access the data through Tokoin platform also by staking
amounts of TOKO token, but without providing services for MSME. Advertisers can place their
targeted advertisements and promotions for the platform user also by exchanging amounts of
TOKO token. The indirect participants do not contribute directly for the MSME, but the TOKO token
that they exchanged for the data will be reserved for user incentives.
Data Miners
Data miners act as the data veriﬁer that responsible for verifying raw data input by MSME. Tokoin
will act as data veriﬁer in the ecosystem.
2.4.2. Participant Function
Data Supplier
MSME acts as the data provider in this ecosystem. Their role is to submit and record their
transaction data activity. The Data Supplier can provide data from online transaction which is
through the Tokoin app, or provide oﬄine transaction data through Tokoin POS.
Data User
This refers to any institutional participant that wish to obtain the transaction information stored in
the Tokoin ecosystem for their business purposes. As industry players data user can embrace
wide range of use and beneﬁt from the data obtained, such as; client appraisal to scout potential
clients, market prediction and product dispersion possibilities, market characteristics and many
other tailored usage based on their criteria. The industry players, commercial banks and insurance
companies, brand companies, investment companies and property developers are the direct
participants that contributes to the ecosystem by staking the TOKO token to access the data from
MSME.

PAGE 20

2.5 How to get a Digital Identity
Online transaction process:
●
MSMEs create a business
account on Tokoin’s app.
●
Tokoin performs a KYC
procedure to validate MSMEs’
proﬁle details.
●
Once the KYC is successful,
MSMEs earn an oﬃcial Digital
Business Identity from Tokoin.
●
MSMEs use their Digital
Business ID to log in and carry
out transactions on Tokoin’s
aﬃliated marketplace.
●
By doing transactions using
their Digital Business ID,
MSMEs will automatically
maintain their Digital Ledger
and create transaction records.

Step 1 Registration (Basic Information)
●
●
●
●

MSMEs ﬁll in basic information, including name, ID card number, driving license, place of birth,
and date of birth.
Information on business location is also needed.
To complete the ﬁrst step of registration, MSMEs need to upload readable pictures of
documents, such as ID card and driving license.
MSMEs proceed to the next step after those ﬁles are successfully uploaded.

Step 2 Registration (Basic Business Information)
●
●
●
●
●

MSMEs ﬁll in the name of the company
They need to select the type of industry based on Tokoin’s classiﬁcation. If they cannot ﬁnd
one, they can add a new type by choosing “others”.
MSMEs inform their business scale based on business GMV.
MSMEs add a business address to explain information on business coverage
Details on phone number and e-mail address will be input last before proceeding to the last
step of the business KYC.

Step 3 Registration (Business Information)
●
●
●
●

MSMEs create a business account on Tokoin’s app.
Tokoin performs a KYC procedure to validate MSMEs’ proﬁle details.
Once the KYC is successful, MSMEs earn a legitimate Digital Business Identity from Tokoin.
MSMEs use their Digital Business ID to log in and carry out transactions on Tokoin’s aﬃliated
marketplace.

PAGE 21

How to Build Business Credibility (Off-line)
●
●

●

●

●

MSMEs visit a Tokoin’s kiosk to
register manually.
Tokoin performs a KYC
procedure to validate MSMEs’
proﬁle details.
Once the KYC is successful,
MSMEs earn an oﬃcial Digital
Business Identity from Tokoin.
MSMEs use their Digital
Business ID to log in and carry
out transactions with other
Tokoin’s users by using POS or
QR scan.
By doing transactions using
their Digital Business ID,
MSMEs will automatically
maintain their Digital Ledger
and create transaction records.

How to Build Business Credibility (Online)
●
●

●

●

●

MSMEs create a business
account on Tokoin’s app.
Tokoin performs a KYC
procedure to validate
MSMEs’ proﬁle details.
Once the KYC is successful,
MSMEs earn an oﬃcial
Digital Business Identity
from Tokoin.
MSMEs use their Digital
Business ID to log in and
carry out transactions on
Tokoin’s aﬃliated
marketplace.
By doing transactions using
their Digital Business ID,
MSMEs will automatically
maintain their Digital Ledger
and create transaction
records.

PAGE 22

2.6 How to Get Data
2.6.1 Online

BUSINESS RELATION
To engage MSMEs and sellers, Tokoin covers the entire transactions of MSMEs using online sourcing
from the point of product order to payment. As shown in the chart below, various events lead to data
collection at each stage. On the marketplace’s environment, Tokoin captures all completed activities as
every transaction between an online seller and an MSME is recorded. The marketplace, acting as
Tokoin’s partner, will update the corresponding data upon each occurrence.

Stage

Data Collected

Data Providers

Frequency

KYC

1.
2.
3.
4.

Company’s name
Business sector
Store’s location
Number of employees

MSME

Once

Transaction

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Product type & amount
Product sourcing & amount
Preferred shipment
Payment details
Delivery details

MSME,
Marketplace

Periodical

Operation

1.
2.
3.
4.

Consumer type
Product type & amount
Selling price
Shipment

MSME

Periodical

PAGE 23

2.6.2 Off-line

BUSINESS RELATION
To engage off-line distributors on Tokoin’s ecosystem, Tokoin covers the entire transactions of
MSMEs using online sourcing from the point of product order to payment completion with the POS
device and mobile app. As shown in the chart below, various events lead to data collection at each
stage. All participants will record their activities using the tools provided. While MSMEs can submit
their data via the mobile app, off-line distributors will submit transaction data using the POS device.

Stage

Data Collected

Data Providers

Frequency

KYC

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Company’s name
Business sector
Business type
Store’s location
Number of employees

MSME

Once

Transaction

1.
2.
3.

Product type & amount
Product sourcing
Payment details

MSME,
Distributors

Periodical

Operation

1.
2.
3.
4.

Consumer type
Product type
Selling price
Shipment

MSME

Periodical

PAGE 24

25

TOKO Token 3.1
Evaluation Framework 3.1.1
TOKO Incentive Pool 3.2

PAGE 25

3.1 TOKO Token
Tokoin’s platform issues TOKO on the blockchain as a means of interaction between participants.
TOKO is used as an incentive when a participant in the ecosystem submits transaction data and
validates the data. Also, it is a prequisite for using certain services on TOKO’s platform, including
the business insights service provided by Tokoin. For service providers, TOKO is used for accessing
advertisements and transaction data of MSMEs. With more and more participants using Tokoin’s
services, the participants will have to stake and/or use the Tokens to use Tokoin’s platform, and this
later raises the price of TOKO.
TOKO is generated by ERC-20 tokens and can be converted onto certain main net protocols if the
team decides that it is necessary.This way, TOKO will be converted into new tokens based on the
new protocol.
As Utility Tokens, the usage of TOKO Tokens is supposed to be within the ecosystem. MSMEs use
TOKO Tokens to build credit scoring that can be used later to access business services. Partners,
such as ﬁnancial institutions, use TOKO Token as a prerequisite for accessing MSMEs’ data and
information.

PAGE 26

27

FINANCIAL
INTERMEDIARIES

Receive
TOKO

Pay TOKO

Data
subscription

Loan issue

Targeted AD
Service

Transaction
Data

Pay TOKO

Receive TOKO
Pay TOKO

Receive TOKO

BUYER

Provide Services
Receive
TOKO

Targeted AD
Service

Pay TOKO

Receive
Services

SERVICE
PROVIDER

Group
buying

SELLER

1.

Tokoin’s Platform
Tokoin is an autonomous system that manages data distribution and provides rewards for data
contribution within the Tokoin’s ecosystem. Tokoin is also an incentive tool that determines the
value regarding to an activity.

2.

Buyers
MSMEs as product buyers contribute as data providers by submitting transaction information into
Tokoin’s platform. Data that they provide include KYC information, transaction details, and
business operation details.

3.

Financial intermediaries
As one of the main actors on Tokoin’s platform, ﬁnancial intermediaries will be able to capture
reputable MSMEs’ digital identity to perfectly tap the real market by sorting MSMEs’ personal
rating and type of services they are looking for from ﬁnancial intermediaries, e.g. amount of loan.

4.

Sellers
They are recognized as product sellers and distributors that market their products to MSMEs. By
paying for TOKO Tokens, sellers obtain targeted advertising on Tokoin’s platform.

5.

Service Providers
Providing business facilities for MSMEs, service providers can also place their advertisements and
offers on Tokoin’s platform, speciﬁcally targeting the MSMEs that meet their criteria.

PAGE 27

3.2 TOKO Incentive Pool
The participants who contribute their activities in Tokoin platform will receive TOKO as an incentive.
These incentive will be rewarded from Tokoin incentive pool, and the incentive pool will be gathered
from additional token issuance, platform usage fee, and reserve pool.

INFLATION

PLATFORM
FEE
INCENTIVE
POOL

PARTICIPANTS

RESERVE
POOL

To reward incentives for platform participants, Tokoin can issue additional tokens, which will only be
used as rewarding incentives. This means that only participants who help the growth of the platform
will receive the rewards. The inﬂation rate will be less than the average inﬂation of the world so that
we can prevent token depreciation.
Also, a certain percentage of platform fee will be accumulated in the incentive pool. Therefore, any
revenue earned by the participants will be partially shared to the participants as well. This will also
reduce the additional tokens issued.
Lastly, tokens from the reserve pool will be used to reward the participants. It will gradually decrease
as the incentive pool will be supplied by platform fee and inﬂations.
Inﬂation rate will follow the formula below for supplying incentive pool.

PAGE 28

Technological Aspects 4.1
Features 4.2
Lending Marketplace 4.2.1
Crowdlending 4.2.2
Cross-merchant Loyalty Program 4.2.3
Product Survey/Voting 4.2.4
Invoice-based Financing 4.2.5
Installment Buying 4.2.6
Group Buying 4.2.7
Products 4.3
POS 4.3.1
dApps 4.3.2

PAGE 29

4.1 Technological Aspects
Tokoin uses a permissioned blockchain for sharing private data in a distributed network. The
requirement is for data to replicate across multiple independent nodes in a controlled way. The data
must be immutable, encrypted, and available for users to query and access.
Most blockchains are designed purely for value transfer and not usually well-suited for data storage.
They have limited transaction throughput, limited data capacity, and lacking interfaces for querying
the ledger content. A few solutions can be done by adopting hashes (IPFS) and pointers
(Multi-Chain) with data stored in ﬂat ﬁles or isolated databases.
Tokoin requires a larger quantity of data to be cryptographically secured while being replicated to
the participants in its distributed network.
Tokoin adopts the blockchain in a novel way. It embodies design principles of a replicated database
model for storing credit data in a high-throughput data store. Tokoin uses DynamoDB for its storage
layer in a NoSQL database. This allows for ﬂexible JSON data models for hierarchy and
classiﬁcation. Importantly, this database implementation allows for querying across large data sets.

PAGE 30

Since Tokoin will operate in an environment without a centralized control, a consensus mechanism
to coordinate data replication between nodes with low latency is required. We use Tendermint for
the underlying consensus mechanism to ensure Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT) across Tokoin’s
network. By design, Tendermint runs validators on each node for the consensus of broadcast
transactions. As this middleware focuses only on consensus, it can handle transaction rates of up
to thousands of transactions per second.
In order for Tendermint to interact with the data store, we adopt the ABCI interface to interconnect
the consensus network to the database engine. ABCI is a messaging protocol coordinating the
requests (business logic) received from Tokoin’s network and applying them to the database (e.g.
add record, append record).
Tokoin must guarantee that records are immutable and non-fungible. To attach all submitted data to
an owner, we leverage BigchainDB for its interfaces to the data layer and strict conditions on the
ownership of the data. It enforces rules to ensure that data are cryptographically signed prior to
being inserted into the database. This also prevents malicious interference with one node and does
not affect the rest of the network.
• Inter Planetary File System (IPFS) IPFS is a distributed ﬁle system protocol to connect all
computing devices with the same system of ﬁles. It can access, manage, and store ﬁles, as well as
tracking versions over time. IPFS also accounts for how those ﬁles move across the network.
• DynamoDB Amazon DynamoDB is a fully managed NoSQL database service that provides fast and
predictable performance with a seamless scalability. DynamoDB allows oﬄoading the
administrative burdens of operating and scaling a distributed database so that users do not need to
worry about hardware provisioning, setup and conﬁguration, replication, software patching, or
cluster scaling. Also, DynamoDB offers encryption at rest, which eliminates the operational burden
and complexity involved in protecting sensitive data.

PAGE 31

4.2 Features
4.2.1 Lending Marketplace
Tokoin can become a matchmaker between MSMEs that need funds and Banks which will give
Lending Solutions.
4.2.2 Crowdlending (Debt Crowdfunding)
Crowdlending works in almost the same way as Lending Marketplace Solution, except that the
source of fund will come from multiple Investors.
4.2.3 Cross-merchant Loyalty Program
An MSME company (as a merchant) can give rewards to other companies (as customers) on
Tokoin’s ecosystem in the form of movable digital assets called TOKO Points. TOKO Points can be
used to redeem discount vouchers for not only the issuing Merchant but also other Merchants on
the ecosystem.
4.2.4 Product Survey/Voting
Brands as Tokoin Partners can conduct product surveys by broadcasting product questionnaires on
Tokoin’s ecosystem. The blockchain will ensure the authenticity of each participant to avoid the
same participant ﬁlling in more than once (double voting) by applying a Unique Private Key for each
participant.
4.2.5 Invoice-based Financing
This solution will help MSMEs when experiencing late payments from customers and smoothen
their business cash ﬂow. MSMEs can use unpaid invoices as collaterals to get funds. This feature
will involve at least three parties: Invoice Issuer (MSMEs that need funds), Invoice Payer (Buyer), and
Bank/Creditor.
4.2.6 Installment Buying
This solution facilitates MSMEs who need to buy products/services but have limited funds at that
time. Based on a history of trading activities (also recorded on the blockchain) as a basis for
evaluating the reputation of MSMEs, Merchants on the ecosystem can provide installments that are
more ﬂexible than a one-time payment in advance.
4.2.7 Group Buying
Also known as collective buying, this solution offers products and services at signiﬁcantly reduced
prices by applying quantity discount under the condition that a minimum number of buyers would
make the purchase. This only applies to buyers and sellers who have joined Tokoin’s ecosystem.

PAGE 32

4.3 Products
4.3.1 POS
The Point of Sale (POS) or Point of Purchase (POP) is where a retail transaction is completed.
Through POS, merchants input and clarify the MSMEs’ purchase transactions as the system records
it in a Digital Ledger. Tokoin’s POS system is a device released by Tokoin’s platform. It functions to
keep track of transactions done by a Digital Business ID. The speciﬁc use of Tokoin’s POS is to
capture off-line purchases. Tokoin will provide this device for off-line seller partners, such as
distributors and wholesalers. Data, such as product type, amount, price, buying intensity, payment
details, and other relevant information, will be recorded through this POS in a Digital Ledger which
belongs to a speciﬁc Digital Business ID.
4.3.2 dApp
The activities on our platform’s ecosystem are generated in a blockchain-based digital system.
Through a decentralized computer application, the data captured on Tokoin’s platform are stored in
a distributed ledger. Every set of data stored on Tokoin’s platform through the dApp is secured, and
this is enabled by the blockchain’s characteristics of being secure, trusted, and immutable.
When users submit their data, it will store the data decentrally, meaning that there is no single point
of authority in the data ownership. Therefore, each set of data belongs to each provider. This
characteristic of the platform allows MSMEs as data providers to gain proﬁt in the form of “data
monetization”. Tokoin’s app also allows MSMEs to build their credibility through records of
transactions.

PAGE 33

Roadmap 5.1
Token Distribution 5.2
Team 5.3

PAGE 31
PAGE 34

5.1 Roadmap
Q4 2018
●
Selling Tokoin Tokens through Private Sales and Pre-Sales
●
Development & distribution of Tokoin Wallet
Q1 2019
●
Grand Launching of Tokoin
●
Selling Tokoin Tokens through crowd sales
Q2 2019
●
On-board Blockchain Advisor for Tokoin’s ecosystem
●
Launching of POC on TestNet
Q3 2019
●
On-board Warehousing Partners for Tokoin’s ecosystem
●
On-board Financial Partners for Tokoin’s ecosystem
●
Expansion of local operations to 10 tier-one cities in Indonesia
Q4 2019
●
Launching of Data Reputation engine
●
Launching of Data Visualization platform
●
Launching of Partner Suite platform
●
On-board 50,000 users on Tokoin’s ecosystem
Q1 2020
●
Launching of dApps on MainNet
●
Launching of Tokoin POS system
●
Launching of Data Exchange platform for Token stacking and loyalty program
●
Expansion of local operations to all capital cities in Indonesia
●
On-board 10,000 users in Tokoin’s POS system
Q2 2020
●
Launching of Tokoin’s POS System
●
Expansion of pilot hyper-local operations to Thailand
●
On-board 1000 users on Tokoin’s ecosystem in the regional hyper-local market
●
Development of AI Solutions for Tokoin to scale up Operations
Q3 2020
●
Expansion of hyper-local operations to Vietnam and the Philippines
●
On-board 500,000 users on Tokoin’s ecosystem in the Indonesian market
●
Expansion of local operations to 10 top tier-one cities in Indonesia
●
On-board 50,000 users on Tokoin’s ecosystem
Q4 2020
●
Deployment of AI as part of Business Intelligence Capabilities
●
Introduction of Forecast & Prediction platform into Tokoin’s ecosystem
Q1 2021
●
Integration of AI solutions for Financing and Logistics partners
Q2 2021
●
Expansion of hyper-local operations to other potential emerging markets
●
On-board 10,000 users on Tokoin’s hyper-local ecosystem

PAGE 35

5.2 Token Distribution

5.2.1 Token Allocation

ICO Contributors

Intended for Private Sale, Pre-sale, and Public Sale contributors. Private and
Pre-sale contributors will be awarded bonus Tokens for their early support,
but these will be subject to vesting periods.

Industry Fund

Required to drive platform adoption, ongoing platform use, and engagement
over time through incentives for key partners, producers, resellers,
distributors, data buyers, data sellers, and contributors (e.g. via bounties and
airdrops). These Tokens may also be used to drive broader industry
initiatives and partners. Tokens are subject to a maximum release of 10% in
a single quarter (e.g. for large initiatives, promotions, or campaigns).

Treasury

Used to support the business on an ongoing basis, i.e. treasury, liquidity
management, operations, and administrations. Up to 20% will be released
initially to fund liquidity management. The remaining will be locked for 24
months with a maximum release of 20% in a single month.

Team & Early
Contributors

Distributed to Tokoin’s team and early contributors. Tokens will be subject to
vesting periods.

Advisors

Distributed to advisors that are critical for the project’s success. Tokens will
be subject to vesting periods.

PAGE 36

5.2.2 Allocation of Funds

Product
Development

Funds will be utilized to develop Tokoin’s ecosystem infrastructure, mainly on
the top of blockchain technology. Tokoin adopts the blockchain in a novel way.
It embodies design principles of a replicated database model for storing credit
data in a high-throughput data store. Tokoin uses DynamoDB for its storage
layer in a NoSQL database. This allows for ﬂexible JSON data models for
hierarchy and classiﬁcation. We use Tendermint for the underlying consensus
mechanism to ensure Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT) across Tokoin’s
network. By design, Tendermint runs validators on each node for the
consensus of broadcast transactions. In order for Tendermint to interact with
the data store, we adopt the ABCI interface to interconnect the consensus
network to the database engine. Extensive technology usage is driven to
ensure Tokoin’s mature infrastructure.

Marketing &
Business
Development

Funds will be utilized to drive platform adoption, ongoing platform use, and
engagement over time through incentives for key partners, producers, resellers,
distributors, data buyers, data sellers, and contributors (e.g. via bounties and
airdrops). The Business Development’s role shall assist Tokoin in acquiring
new customers and selling additional services to existing clients.

Operations

Funds will be utilized for operational expenses, i.e. salaries (full-time and
part-time employees), rental expenses (working spaces and cloud services),
and consultants/advisors fees (legal and ﬁnaniale work).

Reserve

Funds will be utilized for unexpected overhead in any operational and
marketing expenses. Unutilized reserve funds would be used for Token
repurchase program, hence indirectly disbursing funds back to Token holders
by price appreciations.

PAGE 37

5.3 Team
Team & Advisor
REINER RAHARDJA
linkedin.com/in/lordreiner

WELLY SALIM
linkedin.com/in/wellysalim/

CEO, CO-Founder
● Indonesia’s Top 2
successful young
entrepreneurs under 40
● Accelerating Indonesia’s
economy in various MSME
development using his
non-proﬁt organization,
The Accelerator
● Has diversiﬁed portfolio in
some of Indonesia’s major
industries.
● His holding group consist
of multi industries
portfolio, eg: Andesite
Mining, General Trading,
Fishery and Maritime,
Corporate merchandising,
Retail Product,
Agribusiness

CTO
●
Experienced Tech Leader with
15+ years of experience
●
Former VP of Engineering
and Operation of
Booster.com, acquired by
CustomInk
●
Former Iteration Manager of
MYOB
●
Former Tech lead of
Mig33.com, helping to get
them publicly listed in ASX
●
Founder of early social
networks in SE Asia
(Emeimei.com, friendx.com,
ekawan.com), acquired by
NX, listed in MYX
●
University of Strathclyde
(MBA in Strategic
Management)

Eddy Christian Ng
linkedin.com/in/eddy-christi
an-ng-74593520/
COO
● Co-Founder of
livaza.com
● 10+ years experience in
Business development
and Banking

PAGE 38

Niko Tanadi
linkedin.com/in/nikotanadi/

Adi Darda Gaudiamo
linkedin.com/in/adidarda

Project Manager
● 10 years of experience in
Technology Consulting
● An expert in Blockchain
investment

Head of Creative
● 23 years of experience in
content and creative ﬁeld
● Former head of creative
in Ralali.com

Ignasius Michael
linkedin.com/in/ignasiusmich
ael
Generalist Manager
● 3 years of experience in
Stock and Futures
Market
● Former Finance
Specialist in Ralali.com

Oktaﬁa Putri
linkedin.com/in/oktaﬁaputri
Community Manager
● 4 years of experience in
international relations &
event management
system ﬁelds
● Former Operations
Manager at
PouchNATION Indonesia

Mutia Anisa
linkedin.com/in/mutiaanisara
hma/

Syifa Mutiara Putri
llinkedin.com/in/syifamutiarapu
tri/

Graphic Designer
● 2 years of experience in
graphic designing
● Former Design &
Branding Executive at
Mobilkamu.com

Event Coordinator
● 3 years of experience in
live event industries
● Former Business
Executive at ST22
Consulting

Stephanus Andreas
linkedin.com/in/stephanusan
dreas/
Operations Executive
● Bachelor of Accounting,
Kwik Kian Gie
● Operational and ﬁnance
at Tokoin

PAGE 39

40

DAHLAN ISKAN
linkedin.com/in/dahlaniskan

TIAGO ALVES
linkedin.com/in/tiagoalves

Advisor
● One of Indonesia’s top 100
Forbes-listed entrepreneurs
● Indonesia’s media mogul,
Founder and Former CEO of
Jawa Pos Group
● Former Minister of the
country’s State-owned
enterprises (BUMN)
● Former Minister of the
country’s State-Owned
Enterprises (BUMN)

Advisor
● VP Asia Paciﬁc at
Aptoide
● 12 years at Portugal
Telecom

Richard Yoon
linkedin.com/in/richard-yun
Advisor
● Senior Financial Analyst,
Cisco Systems, Inc.
● CFO of Exio
Communications., Inc.

PAGE 40

HongZhuang Lim
linkedin.com/in/hongzhuan
g-lim
Project Consultant
● CEO of ShuttleOne
● Former Managing
Director of Pac-Fung
Agora Pte Ltd.,

Suyong Park
linkedin.com/in/suyongpark
/

Joseph Aditya
linkedin.com/in/josephadit
ya

Project Consultant
● CEO of Block Crafters
Co., Ltd.

Advisor
●
Founder of Ralali.com
●
Successful
entrepreneur
●
12+ years of
experience in B2B
and supply chain
industry

BUSINESS
PARTNERS
Block Crafters Capital
D.Street
Refereum
Ralali.com
PasarPolis
Sahabat UMKM
Tomochain

PAGE 41

Block Crafters Capital is a professional group of experts in the ﬁeld of blockchain, start-ups, and
ﬁnance. This group is our bridge to reach the largest possibilities and opportunities in the
crypto-currencies world. Based on their experience, Tokoin can project a bigger adoption in the
larger market. The strategies that we build with Block Crafters Capital are technology, investment,
blockchain market and adoption, infrastructure utilisation, and business partnership. Partnering with
Block Crafters Capital also accelerates our practice in the aspect of ideation of our market
adaptation.

We are also partnering with dstreet.io, a Korean blockchain media platform, to support our
international coverage. As a joint-venture of three industry leaders in South Korea, MK Media
Goup, DAYLI Financial Group, and Block Crafters, D.Street provides Tokoin with media contents
and strategies with wide coverage to news readers, blockchain inﬂuencers, and marketing
channels to increase awareness and feedback from public and blockchain enthusiasts.

Known as a blockchain-based platform that aims to reward inﬂuencers (such as streamers,
youtubers) who help advertise video games, Refereum is now assisting Tokoin with its growth
engine to grow our community by giving incentives for participants’ engagement. During our
campaigns, Refereum’s widget is available on the homepage of tokoin.io.

PAGE 42

Ralali.com is the current largest business platform in Indonesia, helping MSMEs to source, scale up,
and sustain their operations digitally. In its 5 years of operation, Ralali.com has successfully
managed to connect more than 250.000 small and medium businesses with 15.000 suppliers
across 34 provinces in Indonesia. By being plugged in to Ralali.com’s business experience and
thriving ecosystem, TOKOIN can accelerate the adoption and use while simultaneously enabling the
most important segment of a developing country to better compete and join a global marketplace.

PT PasarPolis Indonesia is the ﬁrst insurance marketplace in Indonesia. As a partner of Tokoin,
PasarPolis aspires to provide MSMEs with business insurance that is affordable yet helpful to cover
their business operations. With PasarPolis on Tokoin’s platform, MSMEs will be assisted with
relevant property insurance protection for their business property asset.

To optimize the strength of the ecosystem, Tokoin equips MSMEs with the power of fellowship
approach to one another. Sahabat UMKM is a community of Indonesian MSMEs which facilitates
MSMEs in gaining beneﬁcial access to networks, leading to fruitful partnerships and their boosted
conﬁdence when entering the bigger business ecosystem. With Sahabat UMKM on Tokoin’s
platform, Indonesian MSME actors will be able to explore their capabilities and opportunities to
cultivate their business potentials by means of the blockchain technology.

Tokoin is partnering with Tomochain to support the infrastructure on the Tokoin’s decentralized
application. For Tokoin dApp, Tomochain provides scalable blockchain infrastructure, which is
trustworthy in terms of transparency and auditability, and a fast and easy token integration.
Tomochain is compatible with Ethereum Virtual Machine-based protocol, enabling public chains and
private chains, as well as cross-chain token transfers.
PAGE 43

References
1)

http://www.un.org/en/events/smallbusinessday/

2)

https://apfcanada-msme.ca/sites/default/ﬁles/2018-10/2018%20Survey%20of%20Entrepreneur
s%20and%20MSMEs%20in%20Indonesia_0.pdf

3)

https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/smeﬁnance

4)

https://www.kominfo.go.id/content/detail/11526/kemenkop-ukm-379-juta-umkm-sudah-go-onlin
e/0/sorotan_media

5)

http://www.oecd.org/cfe/SME%20Indonesia_English.pdf

6)

Ibid

Figure 1.1
https://www.kompasiana.com/exo_sura/58b567e5917e612c13f2b196/jurang-pemisah-pengembang
an-umkm-dan-akses-permodalan-ke-bank#&gid=1&pid=1

Figure 1.2
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/304782183_The_Proﬁle_of_Micro_Small_and_Medium_Ent
erprises_in_Indonesia_and_the_Strategy_to_Enhance_Islamic_Financial_Services_through_Baitul_Maa
l_wa_Tamwiel

PAGE 44

