Over the Reality
The decentralized world scale Spatial Web platform

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
OVR is a World Scale, open-source, AR platform powered by Ethereum Blockchain.
OVR makes it possible for users provided with a mobile device or smart glasses to
live interactive augmented reality experiences customized in the real world.
OVR can be defined as a new standard in augmented reality experiences by placing
itself as the first content browser where the user does not choose the contents
but the world submits the possible experiences based on its geographical position.
OVR adopts the open source philosophy, meaning that the entire OVR community
contributes to its growth, thus making the platform independent of its creators.
OVR use Ethereum blockchain to decentralize all the token exchange dynamics
between the users.
OVR token is an utility token based on the Ethereum’s smart contract ERC-20
standard.
OVRLands are parcels stored inside a blockchain-based ledger that make up the
digital layer of subdivision of our planet into hexagons.
OVRLand token is a non-fungible token based on the ERC-721 standard that also
allows decentralized possession of digital assets such as OVRLands and
OVRExperiences, that superimposed on reality through the eye of a mobile device
or a smart glass, give life to augmented reality experiences.
OVRLands are freely tradable among users in a decentralized fashion through the
use of the marketplace OVROwner. This means that OVRLand owners can decide
what kind of experience the user will experience once entered in the OVRLand.
Therefore the community has complete control over OVRLands, OVRExperiences.
AR experiences can range from static 3D content and interactive highly complex
and hyper real scenes that make virtual content merge with the real world by
engaging the user to a physical interaction with the surrounding world. So far, the
system exploiting these experiences are mobile devices based on iOS and Android
and Smart glasses such as Hololens, Magic Leap and AR low cost headset based
on the holokit project.
OVR, acting as a platform, supports the current hardware available on the market
and with software integrations will support all-next generation hardware launched

2

on the market. The platform therefore stands as a hardware-independent
standard.
The OVRExperiences can be realized thanks to a Unity3D-based SDK and
community users can undertake buying and selling experiences inside the
platform.
Unity3D, among the leading real time 3D development environments on the market,
has been chosen for its versatility, diffusion and ability to manage a cross-platform
compilation of projects thus supporting mobile devices and smart glasses.
OVR implements a decentralized advertising system based on publisher/advertiser
principle where the OVROwner can earn OVR token by inserting the sponsored
content proposed by advertisers into the augmented reality experience.
OVR is unstoppable because, once implemented in the blockchain, no one will
have the power to change the software rules, the OVRLand contents and the
crypto token economy.
The moderation activity will be managed by the community itself with a reporting
system with a management of blacklists maintained by the nodes.
OVR is focused on the rapid growth of the mobile AR and Smart Glasses sector and
introduces the following main innovations:
• Development of a decentralized and unstoppable open source platform
managed by the community with its own coin and its own ecosystem.
• Buying and selling digital assets (lands, contents, advertising) with the OVR
utility token
• Development of a combined tracking system that uses GPS, computer vision
algorithms and the inertial system on board the device to bring the user
experience to a new state of the art of outdoor AR.
• The use of the IPFS* like protocol to decentralize the storage of 2D/3D assets
by making the entire platform unstoppable and independent and
remunerating the nodes that share their storage space.
• Decentralization and community powered ecosystem
OVR, as you will realize in the following paragraphs, is disruptive for different
sectors in addition to augmented reality such as:
•
•
•
•

Digital content monetization
Digital advertising
Digital experience monetization
P2P jobs

3

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1.0 The Market

7

1.1 Overview

7

1.2 Market opportunities

8

2.0 Addressing Market Needs

9

End User - The explorer of the OVR World

9

Digital assets investor - The one who collects OVRLands

10

Digital Media Agencies

10

For the advertiser - A brand who wants to promote its product/service

11

3D digital artists - The builders of the OVR experience

11

OFFLINE SHOPS and Chain stores in general

12

3.0 OVR Key Features

13

3.1 OVR Ecosystem

14

3.2 OVRLands

15

3.2.1 Why hexagons

15

3.2.2 Neighbor Transversal

15

3.2.3 Distortion

16

3.2.4 OVRLands Natura Language URI

17

3.2.5 Private Utility Layer and Public Utility Layer

17

3.3 Marketplace

18

3.4 OVRLands: Buy, Sell, Rent

18

3.5 OVRExperience: Buy and Sell

19

3.6 OVRAdv: Buy and Sell

19

4.0 OVR Tech

20

4.1 Augmented Reality Technologies

20

4.2 Persistent AR Experience and Shared Experience

20

4.3 OVR Geo Positioning and Tracking

20

4.3.1 GPS Issues

20

4.3.2 New Positioning Technique – The Fourth Dimension

20

4.3.3 Target and Scanning

23

4.3.4 Next Development

24

4.4 The OVR SDK and Unity 3D

25

4.5 OVR Land scanner

25

4.6 IPFS and OVRNode

25

4.7 Sidechain

26

4.8 OVRAssistant, the Plug and Play AI avatar

29

4.8.1 What is the OVRAssistant

29

4.8.2 OVR Virtual Assistant Natural Language Processing (NLP) technologies

30

4

5 Token Economy

32

5.1 Two kind of tokens, one ecosystem

33

5.2 Token Economics

33

6 OVR Nodes and staking

34

6.1 OVR Nodes

34

6.2 Lock-Up and additional developments

35

6.3 OVR Core Team

35

6.4 OVR IBCO

35

6.4.1 OVRLand emission

36

6.4.2 OVRLands Token After First Acquisition

39

6.4.3 OVR Token Rewards

39

7 Platform Launch

40

7.1 Roadmap

40

7.2 Marketing plan

43

7.2.1 Definition of Target audience

43

7.2.2 Digital Marketing Strategy Channels - (RACE -Reach, Act, Convert, Engage)

43

7.2.3 Branding and offline marketing strategy

46

7.3 Competitor Analysis

48

8 Initial Bonding Curve Offer

49

8.1 Terms and Conditions

49

8.2 Uses of Funds

53

8.2.1 Budget allocation

54

9.0 Team

55

Advisors

58

10 Legal Disclaimer

60

5

6

1.0 The Market
1.1 Overview
In 2018 several Augmented Reality technologies were introduced on the market.
Technological giants such as Apple, Facebook and Google made major investments
and acquisitions increasingly aimed at implementing such technology with
contents devoted to consumer market.
According to a recent forecast published by IDC, consumer industry will expand its
position as the largest spender in AR and VR closely followed by Retail. This growth
is also due to the fact that the smartphone market goes in such a direction that all
the devices produced since 2018 fully support Augmented Reality. Also the market
related to smart glasses technologies is growing fast and many technological
companies are investing to launch a powerful and affordable product on the
market.
According to IDC, the augmented reality market will reach $11 billion in 2020, while
is expected to reach $137 billion by the end of 2024.
Research highlights how the investments of the most important technological
giants show how these companies have understood the enormous potential of the
Augmented Reality, not only as a technology, but as a new and powerful
communication channel, able to convey any type of content and usable in any
sector.

AR Revenue

Source: IDC
* h!ps://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=prEUR146720420

7

Point of interest

Source: google.com and openstreetmap.org

1.2 Market opportunities
After almost 2 years of research and analysis, we have identified the following pain
points that the OVR Platform will address:
• Mobile app ecosystem fragmentation
• Attention drop in digital ADV
• Difficulty to monetize digital assets
• AR as single experiences in a multitude of vertical apps
• AR as simple marker augmentation with low

8

2.0 Addressing Market Needs
OVR is an aggregator, a community that uses a real economic system that can
revolutionize AR world-scale experiences. Thanks to this system, OVR represents
the solution to various market segments needs.
OVR aims at provide a single free augmented reality tool that allows you to live 3D
quality experience contextualized in the surrounding environment.

End User - The explorer of the OVR World
NEEDS

SOLUTIONS

A single AR worldscale platform as a
new 3D browser on the world

A single mobile application for
smartphones / tablets / smart glasses
compatible with all platforms on the
market

A new advertising channel, going
beyond the classic and overcrowded
mobile advertising

Advertising merges coherently with AR
experiences, making promotional
initiatives less invasive and more
engaging

Multiplayer engagement experiences in
augmented reality

OVR allows realtime interaction
between multiple users in the same
place

Stable and geolocalized experiences in
order to fuse virtuality and reality

OVR guarantees a precise positioning
of 3D elements in the real world for a
quality user experience and consistent
with the surrounding environment
thanks to the software innovations
introduced

New medium to explore open
knowledge

OVR will be will be a seamless and fast
way to access to Wikipedia and open
strest map knowledge. Informations
will be delivered both by
superimposing contend that through AI
powered virtual assistant

9

Digital assets investor - The one who collects OVRLands

NEEDS

SOLUTIONS

Create passive income from digital
assets

Collect fees from publishers who want
to use your OVRLand for distributing
their contents

Enhance the value of digital asset

The selection of the experience present
on the OVRLand and the promotion
aimed at bringing more visitors
increases the potential resale value

Digital Media Agencies
NEEDS

SOLUTIONS

New communication channels

OVR provides a new way of conveying
brand contents thanks to world scale
experience of augmented reality

Technological opportunities to catch
the customer’s attention

Augmented reality is a fast-growing
trend that is increasingly requested in
brand’s communication methods. OVR
responds to this trend with the state of
the art of augmented reality
experiences

Geolocalized customers experiences

OVR is based on geolocation of
contents and on their tracking inside
the augmented reality experience

New investment opportunities

When acquiring strategic OVRLand the
agency can associate sponsored
experiences in strategic locations of
interest to the brands

10

For the advertiser - A brand who wants to promote its product/service
OVR provides the advertiser with the opportunity to enjoy an innovative and noncongested new communication channel.

NEEDS

SOLUTIONS

Innovative communication channel

Advertising in OVR merges with the 3D
experience, thus enhancing the
sponsored message.

A not congested communication
channel

The OVR platform, born at a time when
there is no standard for augmented
reality, creates a new and not over
crowded communication channel

An advertising system with a
transparent pricing

The decentralization of the marketplace
on the blockchain allows to manage
supply and demands with utmost
transparency and traceability

3D digital artists - The builders of the OVR experience
NEEDS

SOLUTIONS

Global platform to sell augmented
reality experiences

World scale distribution channel for AR
and VR content

Possibility to receive requests for new
projects in a quick and practical way

OVR Marketplace where to find
OVROwners development requests

Monetize from your augmented reality
experiences

By becoming an OVROwner the 3D
digital artists will be able to insert
advertisers’ content and monetize with
their experiences

11

OFFLINE SHOPS and Chain stores in general
NEEDS

SOLUTIONS

Provide trade proposal even at a closed
shop

Experiences on an OVRLand in front of
stores can stimulate users even in a
closed shop

Provide interactive gamification
situations

Gaming experiences or general
engagement on OVRLand in front of
shops become a pretext for generating
store traffic

Increase the number of customers with
new initiatives

The user is invited to access the store
through augmented reality experiences
located in strategic areas or near the
store itself

Virtual assistant interactions

OVR platform will provide a plug and
play virtual assistant powered by state
of the art NLP AI algorithms

12

3.0 OVR Key Features
OVR uses augmented reality, a technology capable of adding different types of
content to the surrounding environment (video, audio, 2D and 3D), creating the
illusion that reality and virtuality live together in the same space.
All this in real time and from any device with a camera, such as smartphones and
smart glasses. This innovation makes it possible to “trace” the elements present in
the real world and add other virtual ones. The union between real and digital
generates a unique merged experience.

The Augmented Reality, in this
sense, generates a new dimension,
a completely new media space and
a rapidly growing market.
The OVR platform is made up of:
• OVR Ecosystem
• OVRLands
• Marketplace
• OVRLands: Buy, Sell, Rent
• OVRExperience: Buy and Sell
• OVRAdv: Buy and Sell

13

3.1 OVR Ecosystem

OVR Owner
Who uses OVR token to buy the digital lands (OVRLand) and
anchor an AR experience.

OVR Creator
Who creates the 3D digital experiences (OVRExperience).

OVR Miner
Who activates an OVR Node.

OVR User
Who has the AR experiences.

OVR Advertiser
Who uses OVR token to publish sponsored AR elements on
digital lands (OVRLand).

OVR Staker
Who uses OVR token to stake and vote for IPFS OVRNodes.

14

3.2 OVRLands
The OVR ecosystem is underpinned by a grid of hexagons covering the whole
earth’s surface. The hexagons are called OVRLands, have specific geographic
positions and
a standard dimension of 300 Square Meters. The total number of OVRLands is
1.660.954.464.112. OVRLands can be further divided in 7 hexagons allowing for even
more precise localizations.
OVRlands are not only a reference system used to position AR and VR content, they
are also the fundamental digital asset that will enable our community to generate
the economic incentives for development and growth. OVRLands will be bought*
by OVROwners, their property will be granted by a non-fungible token – ERC-721
standard – recorded on the Ethereum blockchain allowing for decentralized and
censorship resistant property rights.
Property of OVRLands will ground the economic incentives to generate, distribute
and curate high quality AR and VR content.
OVRLand is a scarce and unique resource, only the private keys of the Ethereum
address owning the OVRLand NFT can control it. In the case of private keys loss,
the control on OVRLand would be lost forever. In order to prevent this eventuality,
we require the owner of the OVRLand to prove the control of the private keys by
performing any kind of action on the blockchain (could be a simple ping function)
at least once every 3 years. In the case OVROwner is not capable to provide such
prove of private key ownership in 3 years the OVRLand will be made available again
for public sale.
3.2.1 Why hexagons
There are only 3 regular polygon tilings that can be used to cover earth’s surface:
Squares, Triangles and Hexagons. We chose hexagons because of two specific
properties that well combine with OVR project:
3.2.2 Neighbor Transversal
We envision multiple opportunities of interaction between neighbor OVRLands and
geometry will have huge impact on those relations. Our objective is to multiply
interaction opportunities while keeping those simple. Hexagons exhibit a very
simple neighborhood distribution: contact points are only on sides, never on
angles, moreover all neighbors are positioned at the same distance from the
center. Those qualities are not shared by triangles and squares and allow for faster
and easier neighbor map calculations.

15

3.2.3 Distortion
OVRLands are covering the whole planet and we want the same coherence
between coordinates and OVRLands in all possible locations. Sounds reasonable
but is not that easy! Projecting the spherical earth surface on a plane causes map
distortions, indeed most classic earth map projection techniques such as Mercator
creates huge distortions while we are moving towards the poles.
Tiling the earth’s surface with hexagons allows for Dymaxion projection which
minimizes distortion.

Dymaxion VS Mercator with Tissot's indicatrices of deformation

16

3.2.4 OVRLands Natura Language URI
Humans have an exceptional ability to process natural language, generally at the
age of 4 a child can already recognize and remember more than 5.000 words and
this number grows to a range between 20.000 and 35.000 for an adult. The same
ability does not extend to numbers, our cognitive functions are not wired to
recognize and remember not even dozens of number sequences.
OVRLands are defined by their geographic position, a pair of numbers defining
latitude and longitude. In order to align with the aforementioned human cognitive
abilities we developed an algorithm – that will be open source – capable of
mapping the pair of coordinates of each single OVRLand with a unique triplet of
english words (e.g. blue. sky.dream).
Each one of the single 1,66 trillions of OVRLands will be defined by unique an easy
to remember triplet of english words. To achieve this result we used a word list
extracted by Google N-Grams containing 20K of the most commonly used english
words.

3.2.5 Private Utility Layer and Public Utility Layer
OVRLand property is the fundamental substrate for the whole OVR token
economics. Total control on OVRLands content is granted to OVROwners as it
underpins the existence of the economic incentives of our ecosystem. This space is
defined as the Private Utility Layer.
OVR aims to became the reference decentralized platform for AR content, with
such a vision while establishing the Private Utility Layer we also need to enable the
creation of contents that have a public scope and are not privately owned.
There are contents that have public utility but cannot be created and maintained
by private owners of single OVRLands, both for lack of coordination between
individual owners and lack of sufficient economic incentives. Some examples of
such contents could be: information on public buildings and services,
infrastructures, public institutions. For this reason we decided to create the Public
Utility Layer, it will coexist on the same coordinates of the hexagons of the Private
Utility Layer but will not be owned by any entity.
Public Utility layer will also be the kickstarter for the utility of the OVR Platform,
we will populate it with the whole Wikipedia’s geolocalized knowledge corpus.
Informations will be presented to the final user both by using AR superimposition
and by a virtual assistant powered by state of the art NLP technologies* trained on
Wikipedia knowledge corpus.
Wikipedia knowledge base, virtual assistant AR Asset and trained Neural Network for
NLP will be maintained by OVR Nodes**.

*Please refer to chapter OVRAssistant for more details.
**Please refer to chapter OVRNodes for more details.

17

3.3 Marketplace
The OVR marketplace is decentralized and managed by smart contracts. The main
function is to facilitate the intersection between supply and demand for every
digital asset that can be traded on the OVR platform.
All transactions are handled in OVR tokens and the smart-contract ensures
decentralized assets exchange.

3.4 OVRLands: Buy, Sell, Rent
BUY
After the closing phase of the ICO using the OVRs (“token”), the OVRLand can be
purchased on the OVR Marketplace through an ascending price auction with a
starting price of 100 OVR. If an OVRLand has already been purchased and has been
put on sale on the marketplace, it will be possible to buy it at the proposed value.
OVRLand is compliant with the ERC-721 standard, thus the token can also be
stored and sold peer-to peer on platforms outside the OVR Platform.
SELL/RENT
The OVROwners can sell or rent their OVRLands at any time using the marketplace
features. The OVRLands are sold or rent with the existing OVRExperience.

18

3.5 OVRExperience: Buy and Sell
Community users can develop AR experiences with SDK OVR based on Unity3D and
can then decide to sell it on the marketplace.
The asset storage takes place on IPFS OVRNodes.
The amount desired is passed on from OVR Owner to Content creator upon
association OVRLand->OVRExperience. The smart contract guarantees the
correctness of the transaction.

3.6 OVRAdv: Buy and Sell
The functions offered by the SDK contain the objects required to manage
promotional items such as 3D virtual banners or, generally, plans with dynamically
assignable textures to give the advertisers the possibility to insert their
promotional elements.
The marketplace manages the buying and selling of these spaces on a time basis
or on performance.

19

4.0 OVR Tech
4.1 Augmented Reality Technologies
Augmented Reality is a technology capable of superimposing various types of
contents (video, audio, 2D, 3D) in the surrounding environment. All this happens in
real time and from any device equipped with a camera. This innovation actually
makes it possible to “track” the elements present in the real scene and virtually
add others. The spectacular combination of real and digital generates a unique
experience.

4.2 Persistent AR Experience and Shared Experience
For persistent AR, we mean the possibility for a user to relive the same augmented
reality experience in time and in the surrounding world. This is possible thanks to a
first environmental scan saving.
The ability to reload the environment mapping allows to obtain a shared
experience where users see the virtual elements positioned in the same way in the
space.

4.3 OVR Geo Positioning and Tracking
4.3.1 GPS Issues
The OVR app aims at making the users live various AR experiences depending on
where they are. For this reason the app uses the GPS device data to track the
user’s geographical position.
The data obtained from the GPS report the geographical coordinates and the
relative accuracy level. The value of this last data does not allow a precise
positioning of the AR contents. Moreover, in addition to the metric accuracy error,
there is a percentage uncertainty not guaranteed in the location; this causes a
potential reception of anomalous data, which also deviates a few tens of meters
from the actual position. An augmented reality experience that relies only on GPS
for anchoring content is approximate, uncertain, and not sufficiently stable.

4.3.2 New Positioning Technique – The Fourth Dimension
The first development phase focused on the matching between localization and
coordinates of the hexagonal OVRLand, and then moved on to work out a method
for positioning contents in an augmented reality beyond the GPS limits.
The logical concept is to merge two positioning technologies: SLAM, with high local
accuracy, and GPS, which works at a global level, so as to identify similar data and
cancel anomalous data.
SLAM is a technology that, thanks to the use of a camera, recognizes key elements
of the framed environment and to create a three-dimensional point map. This map
allows you to calculate the camera position very precisely compared to other
physical objects around it. The conceptual innovation that led us to an optimal
20

result was to understand that, SLAM technology makes it possible to add a
variable to the GPS information that was not usable so far: time.
In fact, the system detects GPS data recorded at a specific point in time and
compares them with those surveyed at the later moment. This is made possible by
checking any modification of local positioning data returned by the SLAM
technology.

21

Example
We assume that the user is using his device in a given geographical position.
Following the activation of the GPS and the framing of the surrounding
environment by means of the camera, two data blocks are identified: the position
in geographical coordinates, and the position of the camera relative to the framed
environment.
We assume latitude α, longitude β and a position related to the surrounding
environment equal to coordinates in meters x = 0 and y = 0 (point of origin). The
GPS reports a hypothetical accuracy datum of 5 meters.

If the user moves two meters to the right, given the accuracy of the SLAM
technology, the coordinates of the position become x = 2 and y = 0.
The expectation is that the GPS also registers the same position but, given its
inaccuracy, notifies a shift of one meter in the opposite direction with an accuracy
of 4 meters.

22

The purple area represents the expected GPS data, the blue the recorded ones.

Analyzing them independently we have no possibility of understanding which of the
two data shows the information of the correct user coordinates, but intersecting
the uncertainties of the two data we identify a more accurate uncertainty area
(orange area). The geolocalizing datum is then approximated at the center of the
intersection zone. The consideration of more than two recorded moments allows
to constantly improve the determined position provided by the GPS.
4.3.3 Target and Scanning
This technology makes it possible to better compensate for the inaccuracy due to
GPS geolocation technology without additional tools, technologies or
methodologies that help to correctly position the virtual elements in the world.
Two possible techniques have been identified. The first involves the use of a
graphic “Target” recognizable by the system. Given its size, position and exact
inclination in the world, the “Target” can provide the device with its correct
geographical coordinates.
We assume that we are in a historical square where, on a façade of a building, a
fresco has been painted, or, in front of the door, at a shopping center where a sign
is affixed.
Framing one of these images, if previously uploaded to the system, the app is able
to recognize these images thanks to the use of computer vision algorithms (SIFT /
SURF).
These technologies provide the inclination with which we are framing the “Target”
images and, consequently, the direction in which the user is positioned relative to
the latter. By also entering the “Target” image size, you can calculate the exact
distance between the target and the device (user). In this way we obtain the
relative distance vector (offset). Adding the information previously obtained, that is
the geographical position of the image and its inclination, to the relative distance
vector you can easily calculate the exact geographical coordinates of the device.

23

Once these coordinates are obtained, SLAM technology proceeds with anchoring
the contents, which can be positioned at the desired point with higher precision
compared to the information given exclusively by GPS.
The second methodology for the recognition of the user’s coordinates consists of
the prior scanning of the place of interest by recording the points that the SLAM
uses to anchor the contents.
To use this technique, a figure is required (OVRLandscanner) that goes to the
physical place during the development phase and that, through the OVR app, scans
the surface where you want to show the experience. The information collected
(position and scanned points) provide a precise map of the environment in which
the augmented reality contents will appear.
4.3.4 Next Development
New generation GPS, GNSS, is already present on the market and represents a
possible strengthening of the methods adopted for OVR. SLAM technology is in
constant development and the implementation of 2D image recognition or 3D
models would improve the AR experience. Bluetooth Beacons, on the other hand,
will allow accurate for location recognition even in places where GPS does not
provide accurate data, such as building interiors.

24

4.4 The OVR SDK and Unity 3D
OVRContent are developed in the Unity3D* and the OVR SDK permits to implement
the OVR platform functionalities.
OVR SDK permits to manage:
• OVRUser Wallet transactions calls
• Preview the OVRLands spaces on the editor to manage the correct 3D assets
positioning and spatial borders
• Manage AR persistence
• Manage AR shared experience
• Interactions with gateways like infura** and oracles
• Manage resources limits provided by the OVR client app
• Desktop side OVRContent preview
• Avatar integration and knowledge management

4.5 OVR Land scanner
The OVR SDK allows the content creator to define the tracking modalities of the AR
experience. The most precise mode provides a pre-scan of the OVRLand with the
help of the mobile OVR app. The OVRLand scanner is a community user paid by the
OVRLandOwner to scan with the assigned OVRLand. This service is purchased
through a marketplace where the OVROwner defines the willingness and the price
reserved for the interested OVRLand scanner.

4.6 IPFS and OVRNode
OVR assets are hosted by the OVRNodes powered by a P2P IPFS*** protocol
ensuring storage decentralization. In the first phase there will be 10 master-nodes
dislocated in different geographical areas. At lunch of the platform nodes will be
subsidized by OVR. Subsequently an update of the OVRNode software will
introduce the automatic remuneration of the nodes based on the storage and the
band-with shared by private users. The OVRLand Owner will pay an hosting fee for
hosting the content on IPFS, such a fee will be distributed on the nodes
proportionally to the resources deployed.

* h!ps://unity3d.com/
** h!ps://infura.io/
*** h!ps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/InterPlanetary_File_System

25

4.7 Sidechain
We selected Ethereum to deploy our decentralized platform because Ethereum
already won the race to become the foundation of Web 3.0. Ethereum remains the
most robust smart contract platform in existence. Of the top 100 tokens by market
cap, 96% are built off Ethereum. Of the top 1000 tokens, 89% are built off
Ethereum*.
Ethernode reports over 9,000 active nodes and looking about the community of
developers, Truffle, a development environment ad testing framework, is
downloaded with an average of 100,000 a month with a 1M of lifetime downloads
since its release in May 2015. However today, Ethereum is limited in terms of
throughput (approx. 25tx/s) and gas costs are prohibitive for a high volume of
transactions. Due to this scalability and costs limits we decided to integrate in
OVR project a sidechain technology bridged to the Ethereum mainnet. NFTs
representing OVRLands will be directly minted and exchanged on XDai eliminating
gas costs. It will always be possible to transfer minted NFTs to the Ethereum
mainchain and trade those on marketplaces such as OpenSea. The security is
guaranteed by the Ethereum thanks to bridging smart contracts that permits to
securely exchange tokens from the mainnet to the sidechain and vice versa.

* h!ps://coinmarketcap.com/

26

Thanks to the XDai sidechain the mobile experience is enhanced removing the
friction subject to blockchain and fee mechanics understanding. OVR users will
have a user experience similar to the web 2.0 improving in this way the mass
adoption.
** Please refer to chapter Token Economics for more details.

27

28

4.8 OVRAssistant, the Plug and Play AI avatar
4.8.1 What is the OVRAssistant
The OVRAssistant is a 3D realistic human avatar who use artificial intelligence,
speech recognition and speech synthesis to give geospatial contextual
informations with a neural network trained on Wikipedia corpus and a
programmable knowledge managed by the OVRLand owner.

The way the OVRUser can interact with the Avatar is by voice. Some examples of
the OVRAssistant interactions are: answering questions, guide the user to POI
(Point of interests) near him, move himself on the OVRLand, change his position
based on the OVRUser activity, invite the OVRUser to follow him, change face
expressions, point in a direction, navigate a user inside a shop.

The OVRAssistant appears superimposed on the current view of the real world like
the augmented reality experiences and can coexist with the OVRContents
anchored to the OVRLand.

29

4.8.2 OVR Virtual Assistant Natural Language Processing (NLP) technologies
The virtual assistant will be powered by text to speech and speech to text
algorithms, interactions will be by spoken natural language, no typing will be
required. Virtual Assistant’s intelligence will be powered by an ensemble of
different NLP technologies that can be used both independently or jointly:
• Tree search model: this is the simplest and most common NLP technique used to
power a virtual assistant, questions and answers are structured inside a nested
tree structure and the Virtual assistant exploits such an hardcoded knowledge to
interact with the user.

Sample of tree search model.

• Local pa!ern recognition Question Answering System: OVR uses state of the art
NLP algorithms built on BERT*, a deep neural network developed by Google AI.
BERT is the first deeply bidirectional, unsupervised language representation, pretrained using only a plain text corpus on the whole English Wikipedia corpus. Pretrained representations can either be context-free or contextual, and contextual
representations can further be unidirectional or bidirectional. Context-free
30

models such as word2vec or GloVe generate a single word embedding
representation for each word in the vocabulary. For example, the word “bank”
would have the same context-free representation in “bank account” and “bank of
the river.” Contextual models - like the one used by OVR - instead generate a
representation of each word that is based on the other words in the sentence.
Such an architecture reaches super-human performances on open Q&A tasks. An
example of BERT’s performance on the open Q&A benchmark dataset for NLP
developed by Stanford University:

OVR AI Virtual Assistant will be Plug & Play, Virtual Assistant’s interactions can be
fully customized by simply uploading a text file containing the knowledge that
need to be delivered in the specific circumstance. Both the Text to Speech and the
NLP technologies are already functional on the MVP app. The features will be under
continuous development in order to improve ease of configuration by the owner
and vastness of possible interactions between the Virtual Assistant and the final
user.

*h!ps://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805

31

5 Token Economy
The OVR token is a utility token based on the ERC-20 standard, and acts as an
exchange medium in the whole OVR ecosystem.
The token makes it possible to fully leverage the Ethereum Blockchain and easily
integrate with the existing infrastructure (i.e. wallets & exchanges).

32

5.1 Two kind of tokens, one ecosystem
OVR Token Economics it’s based on the utilization of 2 different kind of tokens,
OVRToken and OVRLand. OVRToken is a fungible token (ERC-20) that will be
distributed during the IBCO and will be the only mean of exchange of value inside
the platform. The OVR Token is used to interact with the platform in the following
ways:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Governance;
Buy OVRLand;
Stake for nodes and liquidity mining;
Buy products on OVR marketplace to create your own OVR
experience;
Pay an OVRCreator to build an OVRExperience for you;
Get paid in OVR by users that want to interact with the
experience;
User may pay to make the experience start;
User may pay to buy products from OVRExperiences;
Get paid by advertisers;
Virtual space rent;
Pay per view/interaction;
Pay for virtual goods;
Use all services present on the OVR platform and
marketplace.

OVRLand it’s a non-fungible token (ERC-721) which will represent the ownership of
Virtual Lands. The first opportunity to use OVRTokens will be the OVRLands
acquisition*.

5.2 Token Economics
All of the economic activity inside OVR will be based on OVRToken exchange, funds
for the kickstart of the platform and its community will be mainly based on the
IBCO and the equity sale. The other form of financing for the first development of
the community will be the OVRTokens collected from the OVRLand distribution,
such funds will be fully used for Users and OVROwner acquisition*.
Long term financial sustainability of the platform will be granted by three different
and uncorrelated token streams:

• Exchange Fees:
OVRLand exchange fees: every time a OVRLand NFT is exchanged a 5% fee is
applied to the transaction value. OVR Content exchange fees: a transaction fee of
5% will be applied on all OVR Asset exchange.
OVR Publisher exchange fees: a transaction fee of 5% will be applied to all
revenues generated by leasing out OVRLand to publishers and advertisers.
33

• In-app purchases:
Users will be able to buy skins and special virtual clothes for their avatars,
access to private Virtual rooms, tickets for virtual events or credits to participate
to AR/VR games.
• IPFS Private Utility Asset Hosting fees:
AR and VR assets will be stored on IPFS, nodes hosting the assets will be
remunerated by OVRLand Owners with OVR Tokens. Placing Private Utility Assets
on OVRLAnds will have a cost of 1$ per month payed in OVR tokens - per month
with a cap of 100 Mb for each Land, half of the collected tokens will be used to
remunerate the IFPS service providers, the other half will be used for:
remunerate the network maintainers, develop the platform software and to
constantly expand the user-base.
*Please refer to chapter OVRLands Token First Acquisition Mechanic for more details.

6 OVR Nodes and staking
6.1 OVR Nodes
OVR is based on two main protocols, Ethereum and IPFS. While Ethereum is the
base layer granting the ownership of OVRLand and the circulation of the hard
capped OVRToken, IPFS will allow for decentralized storage of the OVR
Experiences.
In order to grant AR assets availability, bandwidth and low latency to the final
user, OVR designed an incentive system for the OVR Nodes – IPFS maintainers –
and its stakers. Staking will grant a vested interest of the nodes and of the voters
on the performance of the network.
In order to operate an OVR IPFS Node the minimum direct staking requirements it
is 500.000 OVR. OVRToken owners that do not directly operate an OVR IPFS Node
will be able to vote for their preferred node by staking their tokens to the chosen
Node
Nodes will be scored by two metrics with 50% weight each:
• The number of tokens directly and indirectly staked to the node
• The resources deployed by the node in terms bandwidth and latency
During the first 3 years since the launch of the platform OVR will grant rewards to
the Nodes and to the stakers by using a fund that has been reserved from the Hard
Cap total emission*, no inflation will be created in order to subsidize the Nodes
and Voters staking.
Subsidy from OVR will be gradually replaced by hosting fees distributed to the
nodes and to the voters/stakers while the platform is growing.

34

Rewards granted to OVRNodes for the first 3 years will be 6% APR of their staking
plus a bonus depending on their ranking position.
Rewards granted to OVR Voters/Stakers for the first 3 years will be a 5,5% APR.

6.2 Lock-Up and additional developments
In order to maximize nodes and stakers on-boarding, no lockup will be required
during the first year. Later a voting pool system inspired to Dan Larimer’s voters
purposal** will be adopted in order to avoid the risk of exchanges and in general
actors with no direct interest in the long term decentralized growth of the
platform to overtake the IPFS Nodes.
*Please refer to Public Sale chapter for more details on the reserved tokens to subsidize nodes and
stakers
** h!ps://medium.com/@bytemaster/blockchain-governance-proposal-470478e42686

6.3 OVR Core Team
All of the OVR software will be completely opensource and the community will be
invited to contribute, despite this we’re aware that in order to maintain quality,
throughput and complete independence from industry sponsors in an open source
project, the project itself needs its independent founding source. For this reason
we budgeted a minimum of 500 K per year, covering expenses for 10 FTE
developers that will be financed by the above mentioned continuous funding
streams.

6.4 OVR IBCO
Traditional ICOs reached their peak of adoption in late 2017 and during the bear
market lost most of their value creating huge damage to token holders and
cryptocurrency ecosystem in general. The new paradigm combined with the
liquidity provided by immediate access to secondary markets during the bull run
created the perfect storm of hyper-valued tokens ready to explode. The bigger
problem with ICOs is that the Utility Tokens that has been sold, in 99% of the
projects, had no real utility, at least not in the near future… those were only used
as a means for raising funds. Since there was no way to use them they became a
purely speculative asset blindly replicating Bitcoin and Ethereum market swings
with a very high Beta. The only tokens that were able to maintain their value were
the ones that actually had a utility, real use cases to be spent, BAT and BNB are
examples of such tokens. Despite last two years price dynamics, we strongly
believe that utility tokens are a true revolution creating a new form of financing for
crypto projects, an hybrid between equity and sales that opens up a world of new
opportunities both in finance and governance.
Another strong limitation of ICOs was implied market cap and lack of liquidity on
exchanges: what usually happened was that the project aggressively marketed
their token at a fixed price than later on quoted the token onto a centralized
35

market providing a small percentage of what was raised as liquidity and using
market makers to create fake liquidity. This process made the token very sensitive
to even the smallest sale pressure and created the classic price dump chart that
could be observed on 99% of ICOs.
In order to avoid this situation OVR will raise funds with a new fundraising
primitive: Initial Bonding Curve Offering (IBCO). There will be no pre-determined
price for the OVR token, token price will be determined by it’s demand following a
Bonding Curve, if there is no demand the price will stay low, if there’s demand the
price will grow and tokens will be minted, in this way price discovery is
immediately entrusted to the market. But that’s not all, tokens will be distributed
through the Bancor Protocol* the majority of the funds raised will stay on the
curve ensuring liquidity for sellers and collateral (funds raised) withdrawal will be
regulated by a smart contract from Aragon’s DAO framework. Investors will
continuously be able to both buy and sell from the bonding curve avoiding the
illiquidity problem that traditionally afflicted ICOs and centralized exchanges for
long tail assets.
Beside this, in order to sustain the price of the OVRToken other three strategies described in the following chapters - will be used: double purchasing power of the
token over other means of payment for OVRLand auction; cashback policy on the
first 9 months since the start of the auction; rewards for staking to the IPFS Nodes
and liquidity mining.
*h!ps://support.bancor.network/hc/en-us/sections/360002084771-Whitepaper-

6.4.1 OVRLand emission
OVRLand emission will run until the last one of the 1.6 trillion hexagons (OVRLands)
covering the planet will be minted.
The assignment of OVRLand is based on a bidding war where every bid extends the
period of closing of 24h. The first minimum value is fixed at 10$ with a 100%
increment on the last bid value for every following bid. This method will allow for
fast and reliable price discovery.
Considered the centrality of OVRLand in OVR ecosystem we engineered OVRLand
acquisition in order to minimize friction and to incentivize OVRLand acquisition by
OVRToken holders.
To minimize friction it will be possible to buy the OVRLand with a wide range of
means of exchange including Fiat (USD, EUR, RMB with an in app purchase), ETH,
DAI, USDC and OVRTokens.
Buyers using OVRTokens instead of other means of payment will be incentivized by
two distinct policies:
Double purchasing power over Fiat, ETH, DAI, USDC; the smart contract minting
the NFT representing OVRLands will always assign double purchasing power
36

OVRTokens over all the other means of payment, so for example in order to equal a
10$ OVR bid the ETH payer will need to use 20$ worth of ETH. For the first 9
months, the smart contract minting OVRLand NFTs will consider the value of the
OVRToken with a floor of 0.1 USD such a price will only be applied if the market
price for OVR is less of 0.1 USD. This will also protect the value of the token in his
infancy since in case the OVR Token get devaluated on the market, - assuming
demand for OVRLands - the fixed and double purchasing power of the token over
the other means of payment will create an arbitrage pressure that will drive the
value of the token up again.
Cashback Policy: During the first 9 months from the start date of the public sale,
OVRLand acquisition will be incentivized by a decreasing cash back policy. For
every OVRLand purchase, after a 30 days lockup period, OVRTokens will be
returned to the buying address with a decreasing ratio. Cash back does not include
Gas Fees paid in OVR. Cash back will be applied to the first N lands sold in that
month, please refer to the top banner on the land auction page.

37

Cash Back Coefficients:
Month 1: 95%
Month 2: 85%
Month 3: 75%

Month 4: 65%
Month 5: 55%
Month 6: 45%

Month 7: 35%
Month 8: 25%
Month 9: 15%

Cashback policy will create a very strong incentive to utilize the OVRToken for the
OVRLand acquisition subtracting liquidity from the market and avoiding the risk of
price dumps.
The 9 months window of the cash back policy will also allow for the token
economics ecosystem to develop thus further supporting the OVRToken value with
its increased utility.

38

OVRTokens not redistributed to OVRLand acquirers will be invested in customer
acquisition campaigns. Such a redistribution policy will guarantee a gradual shift
from sustaining OVRLand purchase to sustaining OVR ecosystem and user
adoption.

6.4.2 OVRLands Token A"er First Acquisition
A user can buy an OVRLand owned by another user through the decentralized
marketplace following the dynamic of demand and supply. In this case there will
be only a fee (5%) applied on the transaction and not redistribution activities.
6.4.3 OVR Token Rewards
The OVR Token will also be the way to stimulate the growth of the OVR platform,
rewarding users based on their interaction and value added to the platform. Token
rewards will also decrease over time as the OVR platform grows.
The OVR Token will also be used in bounty programs and campaigns aimed to
acquire new users and stimulate their engagement with the platform:
• Bounty (App download): OVR Token given as a reward to users for
downloading the OVR app at launch;
• Bounty (OVR engagement): OVR Token given as a reward to users who [create
experiences] and [interact with experiences].

39

7 Platform Launch
7.1 Roadmap

40

41

42

7.2 Marketing plan
Goals:
• Position OVR website as industry leader for augmented reality platform aimed
at highlighting opportunities related to at OVRToken.
• Favor a long-term conversion strategy linked to the use of the app and the
time spent by the user on the same.

7.2.1 Definition of Target audience
The general target audience are man and woman of different age groups. They
include:
Financial investor: a type of user who seizes investment opportunities in the
purchase of OVRlands and identifies a financial return on them. Has a high
educational qualification aged 25 and over and their interests are related to
investments and the finance of digital markets.
End User: the most heterogeneous target including types of users of different age
groups, educational qualifications, geographical origin and interests. The
interests to be considered as for segmentation are augmented reality and games
via app. In this target you can find users interested in the purchasing of OVRlands.
Companies: a specific target with a good chance to buy OVRlands, specifically
linked to their physical locations, and which see the app as one digital marketing
possibility.
Digital Marketer: specific target with medium-high degree, mainly aged from 25
years over, with interests in the field of digital marketing and advertising. To be
taken into consideration as he/she will be able to advice customers to invest in the
target company.
Developers: a specific target that falls into subjects with, probably, a medium-high
level of education, with a high percentage from 25 years on, with interest in the
field of apps, software, gaming and development. To be considered as a possible
content provider for the app.
7.2.2 Digital Marketing Strategy Channels - (RACE -Reach, Act, Convert, Engage)
Use the following digital platforms to attain the reference targets previously
mentioned.

PHASE 1 / REACH
Content Publication and promotion with the aim of attracting users to OVR. The
communication means will be as follows:

43

Google ADS
1. Strategic analysis of the main search keywords related to apps and augmented
reality world to assess CPC and setup multilingual ads (Initially English and
Spanish);
2. Creation of campaigns on search network and display network aimed at the
four target groups;
3. Create ads with A/B tests to evaluate performance.
Measurable value: Site visits.
Facebook & Instagram ADS
Setting up multilingual campaigns aimed at:
1. Traffic: bring people to the site or digital stores
2. Engagement: to entice users to interact with content
3. Brand positioning: to make the brand more and more recognizable.
Measurable values: Site visits, app downloads, user interactions with contents.
Listings on specific platforms for advertising on the app and possibility of
monetization such as:
A. AdMob: setting up promotional campaigns for the app using channels like
Search for Google, Google Play, Youtube, Gmail and the Google Display Network
complementary to Google ADS;
B. InMobi: campaigns focused on use habits of apps downloaded from users;
C. ChartBoost: campaigns focused on target players.
Measurable values: Download of the app.

PHASE 2 / ACT
Publication and promotion of content with the aim of informing users that have
already shown interest in OVR.
Means used will be as follows:
Google ADS
1. Strategic analysis of collected data and navigation flows;
2. Creation of remarketing campaigns on search network and display network
addressed to the four target groups;
3. Create ads with A/B tests to assess performance.
Measurable value: Visits to specific site sections, contact acquisition.
Facebook & Instagram ADS
Setting up multilingual campaigns aimed at:
1. Traffic: on digital stores;
44

2. Engagement: to entice users to interact with targeted content;
3. Lead: acquire data on users.
Measurable values: app download, user interactions with content; contact
acquisition.
Advertisement on specific platforms for advertising on apps and possibility of
monetization as:
A. AdMob: arranging promotional app campaigns using channels like Google
Search, Google Play, Youtube, Gmail and the Google Display Network
complementary to Google ADS;
B. InMobi: campaigns focused on use habits of the apps downloaded by users;
C. ChartBoost: campaigns focused on the target players.

PHASE 3 / CONVERT
Publication and promotion of content with the aim of piloting the collected users
from the ACT phase to a conversion.
The means used will be:
Facebook & Instagram ADS
Setting up multilingual campaigns aimed at:
1. Traffic: on digital stores;
2. Engagement: targeted content following the download of the app linked to
marketplace;
3. Use of the App Events and specific campaigns based on the events completed
by users.*
Measurable values: app download, interactions of users with the app.
A. AdMob: arranging promotional app campaigns using channels like
B. Search for Google, Google Play, Youtube, Gmail and the Google Display Network
complementary to Google ADS;
C. InMobi: campaigns focused on the use habits of the apps downloaded from
users;
D. ChartBoost: campaigns focused on target players.
E. Fyber: cost-by-engagement campaigns in order to reward users
F. Unity ADS: revenue campaigns through video insertion. This strategy can be
connected to a “rewards” system related to the OVR world and therefore to
encourage the user to view the advert.
*h!ps://developers.facebook.com/docs/app-ads

PHASE 4 / ENGAGE
Publication and promotion of useful contents for people who are already app users
such as:
45

• selfie related to the use of the app and sharing (eg PS Share of Playstation);
• recording of experience through screen recording and sharing (eg PS Share
Playstation).

The means used will be:
Facebook
Setting up multilingual campaigns with the goal:
A. Engagement: targeted content following the download of the app linked to
marketplace;
B. Use of the App Events and specific campaigns based on the events completed
by users.*
Measurable values: user interactions with the app.
Advertisement on specific platforms for app advertising and possibility of
monetization as:
A. Fyber: cost-per-engagement campaigns in order to reward users;
B. Unity ADS: revenue campaigns through video insertion. This strategy can be
connected to a “rewards” system linked to the OVR world and therefore
stimulate the user to view the advertisement.
Direct Email Marketing Support
Sending users targeted emails with weekly promotions:
• land of the week;
• experience of the week;
• discounts coupons at some brands if the experience is lived.

*h!ps://developers.facebook.com/docs/app-ads

7.2.3 Branding and offline marketing strategy
Local events
Organization of local events targeted in major cities such as Milan, Tokyo, New York,
Berlin, London, Sydney, Los Angeles and Paris aimed at specific segments of
identified public. (Roadshow).
Exhibitions
Attendance at the most important technology-related conventions with public
events speaking and demonstrations on the stand, setting up purchase and virtual
simulations experience.
46

Media Offline
Press releases to traditional media related to brand and innovation technology. Adhoc press releases related to blockchain and ICO will be targeted at specific
media.
Guerrilla Marketing
Creation of flash mobs in major cities such as Milan, Tokyo, New York, Berlin,
London, Sydney, Los Angeles and Paris where they will live experiences by groups
of users thus creating an attention towards passers-by who will use their
Smartphone to highlight the event on their profiles social transforming it into
something viral.
Organization of thematic flash mobs within the brand franchises that have become
early app adopters and advertisers (eg from Burger King, McDonald’s, Apple Store
etc) inviting people to download and use the app to live experiences related to the
brand and that will give access to information, discounts or exclusive services.
Influencers
Involvement of youtubers from different countries belonging to the gaming world
who will become app promoters and will highlight the possibilities of play and
purchase in the marketplace.
Involvement of sports champions or high-level sports teams like testimonials that
promote experiences and services related to the use of the app in sports facilities
during events.

47

7.3 Competitor Analysis

OVR

Arround

Fully decentralized

Blockchain Scalability
Sidechain integration
with DPOS consensus
Full lands availability
Uniform lands
management
Strategic partnerships
Avatar with artificial
intelligence QA
Deep learning for
tracking and scene
understanding
Circular economy with
demand/offer tasks
Cashback system for
land activity scaleup
Intelligent realtime
marketing budget geo
distribution
Business model with
auto incremental user
acquisition budget
allocation
AR glasses client ready

48

Arcona

Infiniverse

8 Initial Bonding Curve Offer
8.1 Terms and Conditions
OVRGLOBAL OÜ is a company based in Tallinn managing the issuing of OVR utility
token. The token will act as medium to interact with OVR, as well as to be used on
services and products available on the OVR platform.
Token Emission
OVR Token is based on ERC-20 standard, the emission of tokens is governed by a
DAO under Aragon framework. OVR token will be created in two main phases: the
Initial Token Distribution event and Initial Bonding Curve Offering event.
During the initial token distribution event tokens will be created for the following
categories: equity sale investors, private sale investors, team members, advisors,
community rewards, bounty program. All the rest of the tokens will be created and
distributed with an Initial Bonding Curve Offer (IBCO). 15 days after the launch of
the IBCO an OVR/DAI market will be created also on Uniswap.
The IBCO is scheduled by November 2020 and has the following rules:
• Is open to partecipants from permitted jurisdictions who perform KYC.
• There is no minimum contribution to participate in the Initial Bonding Curve
Offering.
• Tokens purchased from the IBCO has no cliff or vesting period, those can be
immediately claimed, transferred or sold back to the Curve.
• When tokens are bought from the Curve new OVR tokens are created and price
of the token increases, when tokens are sold back to the Curve OVR tokens are
destroyed and price of the token decreases. Bonding curve is based on Bancor*
continuous liquidity protocol.

*h!ps://support.bancor.network/hc/en-us/sections/360002084771-Whitepaper-

49

• There is no theoretical hardcap for the number of tokens that can be minted by
the Bonding Curve. Indeed there’s a practical limit given by the market infact a
linear growth in token emission corresponds to an exponential growth in token
cost.

• Liquidity for sellers on the Bonding Curve is granted by the DAO smart
contracts that limits the ability of OVR Holding to withdraw the DAI collateral.
Maximum DAI collateral withdraw per month is set to 50k DAI with a floor
liquidity of 250k. Changes to such a policy can only by applied by token holders
vote.*
*More on this mechanics on h!ps://fundraising.aragon.black/.

50

The initial token distribution will have the following structure and smart contract
enforced vesting:
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Tokens reserved to equity investors: 4.250.000 OVR reserved to equity
investors cliff period IBCO launch + 15 days; vesting period linear release of 48
months.
Vesting Smart Contract: 0xE07f85362fe0d14d4F2b272b98d67B50A3148072
Private Sale investors: 3.168.000 OVR Tokens to early investors of permitted
jurisdictions who performed KYC. Cliff period IBCO launch + 15 days; with
variable vesting period from no lock-up to 12 months. Before the Cliff date,
OVR will release the smart contract for the private sale investors to convert
the genesis token to OVR token.
Team Fund: 26.500.000 OVR tokens reserved to incentivize the OVR team
members and contribute full time to the project with a long term mindset.
Cliff period IBCO + 15 days; vesting period linear release of 48 months.
Vesting Smart Contract: 0xCEE8fcBC9676A08B0a048180d99b41a7F080bB78
Advisors: 5.950.000 OVR tokens reserved to Advisors to support the project.
Cliff period IBCO + 15 days; vesting period linear release of 24 months. Vesting
Smart Contract: 0xC1D9261cBc6DeD410dC81929EBB0871471E7e9D3
Bounty program: 1.500.000 OVR tokens reserved to the community members
who participated to the treasure hunt and other token incentivized campaigns.
Cliff period IBCO + 15 days; vesting period linear release of 3 months.
Community rewards: 20.000.000 OVR Tokens reserved for rewards to
community members participating to the ecosystem, such activities include
IPFS nodes operating and staking, liquidity mining, voting. Cliff period IBCO +
15 days; vesting period linear release of 72 months.
Vesting Smart Contract: 0x0965cBf02906b8c854037A16D4f39456444cE600
Foundation: 20.000.000 OVR Tokens reserved for supporting the ecosystem,
the release of those tokens will be controlled by token holder voting, yet
whether the community voting result, funds will not be available faster than
the following hardcoded release schedule: Cliff period IBCO + 15 days; vesting
period linear release of 72 months. Also the mentioned fund may be burned in
case the token holder community decides so.
Vesting Smart Contract: 0xe3729fA98e1bC66750F986E95b37044B06D26D73
Contingency liquidity bootstrapping: 320.000 OVR funds are reserved for
liquidity bootstrapping with partner exchanges. The reserve will be used only
in case of network congestion or excessive price volatility on the initial
moments of the IBCO launch will not allow for liquidity supplying. Unused
tokens will be burned.

51

Why so many pre-minted tokens? Why not just going out with a minimum amount
of tokens and then mint those later with the consent of the token holders?
For the following reasons:
A. We believe that declaring a total amount of circulating tokens in advance is
much more fair than minting those later on. This first solution allows for fully
informed price discovery since investors have a clear idea of both circulating
market cap and maximum* fully diluted market cap.
B. There can be coordination problems in proposing to token holders to allow for
minting new tokens since while those can be used with a positive impact for
the project, dilution fear can prevail. Better have a reserve than later on can be
burned, the coordination problem is minimal in such a scenario, in-fact reserve
token burn has strait-forward benefits for token holders
C. In a crypto project governed by DAO pre-minting and assigning tokens to
specific tasks equals to algorithmically committing to a business plan.

*tokens sold to the bonding curve get destroyed diminishing supply.

52

Token Release schedule

8.2 Uses of Funds
Funds will be used to ensure the development and launch of the platform, as well
as to maximize its success and growth chances.
Development: Dedicated Dev team focused on managing the launch of OVR most
amazing features. They include all expenses related to product development.
Marketing: Marketing activities to guarantee a worldwide diffusion and success.
3-Year Budget allocation:
Year 1 - 40% Initial boost to create a mass critic user base (early stage)
Year 2 - 30% Guarantee budget for user acquisition integrated with the OVR
platform marketing reinvestments: (expansion stage) Year 3 - 30% Guarantee
budget for user acquisition integrated with the OVR platform marketing
reinvestments (maturity stage)
Operating costs: General operating costs.
Partnerships: Investments finalized in creating partnerships and initiatives.
Legal costs: IBCO-related legal costs, ensuring continuous legal compliance over
the growth of the platform.

53

8.2.1 Budget allocation

Legal

8,0%

Marketing

35,0%

Partnership

12,0%

Operating Costs

10,0%

Development

35,0%

54

9.0 Team
Davide Cu!ini
CEO
Davide is a Software Engineer with expertise in augmented reality, deep
learning and blockchain smart contracts. Davide has a wide experience in
the development of engine for augmented reality; engine development
within computer vision on mobile and embedded systems; machine
learning models for videos, audio and text use. He also has interests in
System Integration, and Robotics with specific application in the industrial
field. He works out solutions in the industrial field for companies like
Bosch and Danieli Automation and he collaborates with IBM to scale up
industrial AI solutions.

Diego Di Tommaso
COO
Graduate in Theoretical Philosophy and MBA in SDA Bocconi with
specialization in Finance at UCLA. Diego has an extensive expertise in
innovation management. He has been working in the fashion industry for
over 10 years with positions of growing responsability up to the CEO.
Lately collaborating with PwC as Senior Advisor working on strategy, open
innovation, operation excellence and internationalization. Diego is also a
startup advisor and one of the founders of Unicorn Trainers, a club
focused on new technologies and startup support. Since 2014 Diego
developed a specific interest in blockchain and decentralized consensus
mechanics, he has been Keynote Speaker and organizer of several
Blockchain events.

Ma!ia Crespi
CSO
Futurist, technology evangelist, entrepreneur. Mattia interacts with
innovators and innovation centers globally, to bridge research on new
technologies, future ecosystems and the business environment.
Technology strategist and innovation expert, Mattia is a Research Affiliate
of the Institute For The Future, and a Member of the NATO ACT Innovation
Hub. In 2012 Mattia founds Qbit Technologies, an award- winning Start-up,
developing Virtual and Augmented Reality solutions for enterprises, after
over 15 years of experience working on virtual reality and virtual worlds
projects such as Second Life and High Fidelity and many virtual reality
implementation projects, for both research and industrial purposes

Carlo Davide
AR Architect & Developer
Senior Developer specialized in the development of experiences in
Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality. Expert of Unity platform. Constantly
researching about potential developments of new technologies for Mixed
Reality experiences.

55

Angelica Bordon
Head of Communication
Graduated from the Academy of Fine Arts in Venice. It is specialized in the
application of new technologies in the field of visual communication.
Expert in UI / UX design and concept design.

Antonio Dal Cin
Full Stack Developer
Full Stack Developer and Web Designer with expertise in analysis, design,
development, management and maintenance of web based systems.
Autonomous freelancer on many custom CMRs, company portfolio
websites and e-commerces, part of the developing team in an ambitious
art investments platform and a national career management system.
Constantly developing skills acquired through University and work
experiences, looking to gain further progression within AI and BlockChain.

Lydia Wang
Marketing Director
Graduated from London School of Economic and Political Science, Master
degree in media and communication. Worked as consultant in FMCG
market research area with Coke Cola and J&J China, focus on quantitative
analysis of consumer behaviors.

Saul Clemente
Head of 3D development area
Associate Consultant for a renown strategic consulting firm, with
experience in distribution models and organizational transformation for
large corporations. He has extensive experience in strategic planning and
project management.
Engineer with academic background at Politecnico di Milano, Imperial
College of London and Shanghai Jiaotong University.

Marco Toppano
UX/UI Designer
Passionate User Interface Designer blending his IT background with design
thinking approach. He’s graduated in Science & Multimedia Technologies at
Università di Udine with a thesis on “Designing a User Interface for
Microsoft Hololens”. For the past 5 years he has been working with
brands, startups and digital agencies to help them enhancing their digital
presence. Marco is currently interested in BlockChain and he is developing
an art platform based on Ethereum.

56

Alex Faraone
Community Manager
Community and Client management, revenue generation, sales,
relationship building, networking, communication, engagement strategies.
Expert and Specialist for more than 10 years I have collaborated for
several Italians and Worldwide startups. Serious, honest, accurate,
respectful and punctual I am passionate about blockchain and Crypto
World.

Victor Amaechi
Social Media Manager
Digital marketer and content creator with over 4 years of experience in
the blockchain industry. He has worked with more than 10 reputable
projects in the past and has once co-founded a startup in the industry.

Federico Palla
Unity Developer
Master Graduation degree in Computer Science, I'm a Junior Software
Engineer competent in Game Design and Programming in Unity 3D, Web
Technologies as well as Machine Learning solution for Natural Language
Processing, experienced as University student and developer in OVR.

Ma!ia Di Nunzio
3D Designer
3D artist expert in creating assets for Real-time render engines.
Master degree in Computer Graphics, Autodesk Certificated and full
knowledge of the main 3d modeling softwares. Constantly researching for
new technology to enhance his creativity

57

Advisors
John Henry Clippinger
Advisor
Throughout my career I have always been interested in complex self
organizing systems and new approaches to organizational and institutional
design to address fundamental civic, economic and ecological issues. I
have held senior positions in government, large enterprises and founded 4
software companies. I been engaged with non-profit organizations and
institutes – Santa Fe Institute, Aspen Institute, World Economic Forum,
Kauffman Foundation – and I have started new programs at Harvard and
Harvard Law School, Brandeis Florence Heller School, MIT Media Lab, and,
co-founded ID3 with Sandy Pentland of MIT Media Lab.

Richard Shibi
Advisor
Richard Shibi has more than 15 years of experience in the IT industry. He
has served as a senior management consultant and a regional account
executive for IT projects deployed at global scale in the
Telecommunication industry (North America, Europe, Russia, Middle East,
China & South Africa). Richard is currently studying MBA at Imperial
Collage Business School in London, running a Blockchain consultancy
development start-up in Europe (PureGo OOD) and is serving as a board
member and ICO advisor for Coinnup, TYDO, Cyber Capital Invest,
MyEarthID, WMpro and ZeeRing blockchain projects.

Sean Ness
Advisor
Sean Ness is a Director, Business Development at Institute for the Future,
an independent, nonprofit research group with almost 50 years of
forecasting experience. Sean oversees business development at Institute
for the Future. After earning a BS in polymer science with a minor in
chemistry from Pennsylvania State University, Sean ping-ponged between
research organizations including Forrester Research and scrappy software
start-ups like ComputerWire before joining IFTF in 2004. In 2006, Sean cofounded the STIRR Network, a group that helped catalyze early- stage
entrepreneurial activity in Silicon Valley and beyond, through 2009.

Felix Mago
Advisor
Felix is Co-Founder of Dash NEXT & Dash Thailand. Dash is the leading
cryptocurrency for real-life payments. Dash Next is focused on biz-dev
and partnerships. He published the “Bitcoin Handbook” and is Co-Founder
of FUTERIO and the Blocktech Institute. Felix focus is on mass adoption of
cryptocurrencies and decentralized businesses.

58

Gianmarco Boggio
Advisor
Gianmarco has worked in the commercial sector with telecommunications
companies, including IBM and Set Telecomunicazioni. Since 2006, he has
been the director of the Italian branch of Allot Communications, an Israeli
manufacturer of control, management and security systems. Since 2008
he is also Vodafone customer manager in the European, African, Asian and
Australian territories. Since 2019 he has been involved in the expansion in
Europe of an Israeli company active in government supplies. He has been
registered as an executive at Manageritalia since January 2011.

59

10 Legal Disclaimer
The delivery of this White-paper and the offer, sale of Coins, do not constitute a
representation that the information contained here in is correct after the date of
this White-paper. The directors of the Company have taken all reasonable care to
ensure that the facts stated here in are true and correct in all material respects
and that there are no other material facts, the omission of which would make
misleading any statement herein whether of fact or opinion.
The contents of this White-paper should not be construed as investment, legal or
tax advice. Each prospective coin buyer is urged to seek independent investment,
legal and tax advice concerning the consequences of purchasing the Coins.

60

