Whitepaper
Abstract

3

1. INTRODUCTION

4

1.1 Issues of Blockchain

1.2 Issues of Smart Contract
1.3 Solution of Precium

5
8
9

2. PRECIUM PLATFORM
2.1 Introduction

10

2.3 Onyx Core Layer

12

2.2 Architecture

2.4 Precium Platform Layer
2.5 Application (7render's)

2.5.1 Necessity and Role of Onyx Chain

Precium 2 / 34

2.5.2 Ecosystem Components & Service Flow

11
13
16
17
18

3. ONYX CHAIN
3.1 Hybrid Blockchain

20

3.3 Consensus Protocol for Onyx Chain

24

3.2 Technical Overview

4. TOKEN ECONOMY

21

26

5. ACTIVATION PLAN
5.1 Roadmap

5.2 Marketing strategy

28

6. TOKEN DISTRIBUTION
6.1 Introduction

6.2 Token sales and ICO fundraise managements

7. TEAM & PARTNERS
8. REFERENCE
Disclaimer of Liability

29

30
34

Abstract

Unlike existing methods of data storage in which all data is stored in a centralized server, blockchain
technology allows data to be linked together like a chain and shared among all participants, creating
a distributed, immutable system. Smart contracts automatically execute according to contract terms
Precium 3 / 34

set between the contracting parties, fundamentally eliminating the risk of contract failure without any
additional administrative costs. These characteristics give smart contracts unlimited potential. However,
smart contracts have many technical shortcomings to address for real-world applications. Blockchain,
upon which smart contracts are based, is still technologically inadequate in regards to economic efficiency
and the reliability of decentralization. Smart contracts are also difficult for normal users to write and use.
Additionally, there is still no method to determine with certainty whether or not a smart contract has been
fulfilled.
The Precium platform is a new smart contract platform for peer-to-peer (P2P) transactions that allows
contracting parties to create and use smart contracts simply and securely. The Precium platform provides
users with a template of code for various contract terms, allowing platform users to select and combine
their preferred contract terms to create a complete smart contract. In addition, anyone can create and
upload contract terms to the Precium platform. These contract terms go through a validation process to
ensure users’ safety.
Onyx chain, the core of the Precium platform, is a hybrid blockchain that combines public and private
blockchains. Onyx chain employs the raft consensus protocol used by Quorum, a representative private
blockchain based on go-Ethereum, and simultaneously preserves blockchain’s transparency while
enjoying a high transaction rate and high scalability. Onyx chain’s unique structure combining both public
and private blockchains gives it differentiated advantages over other blockchains. It can also use Oracle
technology more efficiently, which is a technology that calls information from an off-chain network to an
on-chain network on the blockchain.
Onyx chain can secure a competitive advantage over existing blockchains through Precium’s unique and
efficient hybrid blockchain structure. With this foundation, the Precium platform will contribute to the
development of a robust smart contract ecosystem.

1. INTRODUCTION

Various industries recognize blockchain as one of the innovative

Precium 4 / 34

technologies that will change the future. Enterprises in each industry
are making various attempts to apply blockchain to their specific goals.
Among these efforts is the active research and development of smart
contracts, which can simplify contract procedures. A smart contract
refers to a contract on a blockchain that automatically executes
according to terms agreed upon by the contracting parties; in reality,
they are executed according to the agreement of a number of parties.
Depending on the purpose of the blockchain, the parties involved can
be anyone who can participate in the blockchain or limited to a certain
set of authorized users.
These blockchain-based smart contracts have various advantages.
Most importantly, they reduce or completely eliminate the dependence
on a middleman, a role necessary for traditional contracts. Smart
contracts are well-suited for use in contract structures that require
trust between the contracting parties, and have a decisive advantage
over middleman systems in terms of productivity and cost savings.
Additionally, compared to contracts administered manually, smart
contracts are faster and much less prone to human error since they
can be automatically managed and executed only through the network.

Precium 5 / 34

However, blockchain and smart contracts would have many technical shortcomings
to address for industrial application. Blockchain, the basis for smart contracts, is still
technologically inadequate in regards to economic efficienc y and the reliability of
decentralization. Smart contracts are also difficult for normal users to write and use.
Additionally, there is still no method to determine with certainty whether or not a smart
contract has been fulfilled.

1.1 Issues of Blockchain

In blockchain, information is recorded on a ledger that is distributed on a peerto-peer (P2P) network rather than stored on a specific institution’s centralized
server. This new distributed database management system, also referred to as a
distributed ledger, is jointly recorded and managed by its participants. This system
highly differs from existing database structures in which jointly-used data is
collectively managed in one place. By using a consensus algorithm, the data to be
recorded on the distributed ledger is sorted and validated to maintain its integrity.

Public blockchains and private blockchains can be distinguished based on who
has read and write permissions, as well as who has permission to participate in the
consensus.

Precium 6 / 34

Public Blockchain

A public blockchain, also referred to as a permissionless
ledger, is a distributed database management system in which
all transaction parties share and store transaction information
o n t h e d i s t r i b u t e d l e d g e r, e n s u r i n g t h e t r a n s a c t i o n s ’
transparency. Therefore, any network participant can validate,
create, or view transactions. The widely-known Bitcoin and
Ethereum blockchains are two examples.
While public blockchains are more secure from hacking and
issues involving trust compared to centralized management
systems, they suffer from technological challenges such as
slow processing speed and limited scalability, as well as price
volatility. These issues make real-world industrial application
difficult to achieve. Of course, there are many technologies
such as Plasma, Sharding, Raiden, and DAG being researched
and developed to overcome public blockchain’s technological
limitations. However, there has not yet been a solution to
the blockchain trilemma—that is, simultaneously maintaining
decentralization, security, and scalability.

A private blockchain, also referred to as a permissioned ledger, is a blockchain in which only
certain nodes can participate. Recently, this blockchain structure has drawn the attention of
many companies. From a company’s perspective,
being able to directly select trustworthy nodes
makes private blockchain management easy;
moreover, since the nodes are trusted, private
blockchains can secure higher processing speeds
and scalability through consensus methods
d i ffe re n t f ro m p u b l i c b l o c kc h a i n s . H o w e ve r,
private blockchain nodes are limited to a certain
institution or company, forcing the system to
depend entirely on the service provider and
introducing limitations regarding trust.
Private Blockchain

Public and private blockchains have clear pros and cons regarding transparency, security,
scalability, and confidentiality. Public blockchains emphasize decentralization since anyone can

Precium 7 / 34

join the network; they are also very secure because their many participants all share and store
the ledger. On the other hand, only authorized nodes can join a private blockchain, which better
protects private information and introduces significant performance and cost benefits.

Cost-efficiency

●Hybrid
●
Private●
●Public
●
Openness

Transaction Speed
Decentralized Trust

As a result, there is a trade-off between trust and speed when considering the advantages of
public and private blockchains. Many blockchain experts expect the boundary between these
two types of blockchains to blur in the future.

1.2 Issues of Smart Contract

Smart contracts, first proposed by Nick Szabo in 1996, were further enhanced through
Turing-completeness and the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). The heart of the technology is
its automated contract mechanism.

Smart contracts’ greatest strength is their ability to create reliable contracts without the use

Precium 8 / 34

of a middleman.

This leads to cost savings and low execution risk, catching the attention of companies in
various sectors, including those involved in financial transactions, real estate contracts, and
trade.
However, there are many technological shortcomings to address to freely implement
smart contracts for real-world application. First of all, in order to create a smart contract, a
programming language must be used to code the contract terms and content; this is difficult
for everyday users to do themselves. Additionally, an existing smart contract cannot be
partially modified nor reused, introducing inefficiencies. Particularly in regards to security, any
errors or vulnerabilities in the code can cause huge damage to users.
There is also no complete blockchain consensus process to determine whether or not the
conditions in a smart contract are fulfilled. Smart contracts are saved on the blockchain, so
whenever external information is used, the reliability of the smart contract will depend on
the reliability of that external information. Therefore, if information taken from outside the
blockchain network (off-chain) is tampered with or contains discrepancies, then bringing
that information onto the network (on-chain) can severely damage the reliability of the
smart contract. In addition, in order to validate on-chain information, many nodes need to
continuously retrieve external information. This process can also introduce many other
problems.

1.3 Solution of Precium

Private Blockchain

Precium 9 / 34

Public Blockchain

Hybrid Blockchain

Precium seeks to solve blockchain’s current problems through the development of Onyx
Chain, a hybrid blockchain that combines public and private blockchains.

With its structure combining public and private blockchains, Onyx chain employs the Raft consensus
protocol used by Quorum, a private blockchain based on go-Ethereum, and simultaneously preserves
blockchain’s transparency while enjoying a high transaction rate and high scalability.
Onyx chain remedies public blockchain’s problems with smart contracts and aims to remain reliable in
real-world applications. The smart contract’s basic information is disclosed through the public blockchain,
while the contract’s detailed information is confirmed by the contracting parties through the private
blockchain, protecting confidential information. In addition, Oracles, technology that brings external
information onto the network, are used on the private blockchain, making it more efficient than if used on
the public blockchain.
With Onyx chain as a foundation, the Precium platform aims to make secure smart contracts more
convenient to use. Without any programming, users on the Precium platform can select and combine their
preferred contract terms to conduct smart contracts on the P2P network. Moreover, anyone can create
and upload contract terms to the Precium platform. These contract terms go through a validation process
to ensure users’ safety.

2. PRECIUM PLATFORM

2.1 Introduction

Precium 10 / 34

The Precium platform is a smart contract platform based on the Onyx chain for peerto-peer (P2P) transactions that allows users to create and use smart contracts simply and
securely. Existing smart contract platforms require developers to code terms directly into a
smart contract for users. However, this existing structure introduces a huge barrier to entry
for the general public who may wish to create their own smart contracts.

The Precium platform provides users with a template of code for various contract terms,
lowering users’ barrier to entry for creating smart contracts.

Precium platform users only need to select and combine their preferred contract terms to
create a complete contract. The platform then combines the selected coded terms from a
template to provide a complete smart contract. Therefore, without any programming, users
can employ smart contracts to engage in P2P transactions with their desired peers.
This process is also highly efficient in reusing smart contracts. In daily life, contracts made
for different purposes may still share many common terms. This includes terms such as
contract duration, the number of times the contract should be executed, and for what amount
of time it should be executed. The Precium platform stores pre-validated code for not only the
above common terms but also for a variety of contract terms specific to certain fields. This
code is then provided to users in a template. As such, it is very easy to reuse contract terms.
Errors and other issues are also reduced, since the same validated code is used repeatedly.

2.2 Architecture

Application Layer

Precium Platform Layer

Precium 11 / 34

Template Creator

Platform User

Design Contract Template

Create Smart Contract using Template

Test Codes for Template

Pay ONX and PCM

Get Rewards

Get Rewards

Use Oracle API

Use Wallet

Onyx Core Layer
BlockChain
Private State

Public State

Precium’s architecture comprises three layers. The most
fundamental, the Onyx Core Layer, contains the Onyx chain where
all contracts on the Precium platform are generated. The Precium
Platform Layer has a Template Creator that templates the code
related to the smart contract and a Platform User to build a smart
contract. In the Precium platform, template creators are provided with
the various functions needed to template the codes used for smart
contracts, and platform users can use the functions of payment,
wallet, reward as well as smart contracts. The top layer, Application
Layer, has various applications that utilize the features of the Precium
Platform Layer.

2.3 Onyx Core Layer

Onyx chain employs the Raft consensus protocol used by the private blockchain Quorum, and
Precium 12 / 34

simultaneously preserves blockchain’s transparency while enjoying a high transaction rate
and high scalability. Quorum is an Ethereum-based distributed ledger protocol developed by
JPMorgan Chase, and was designed as a minimal fork of the go-Ethereum client.

“Quorum is an Ethereum-based distributed ledger protocol that has been developed to
provide the Financial Services Industry with a permissioned implementation of Ethereum that
supports transaction and contract privacy.” – J.P.Morgan

Quorum has key features such as transaction and contract privacy, multiple voting based
on the consensus mechanism, network and peer node participation permissions, and high
performance. In particular, in contrast with Ethereum, in which all nodes can freely participate,
Quorum is classified as a private blockchain because nodes must first receive permission to
participate. Onyx chain aims to maintain Quorum’s inherent features as much as possible while
also retaining public blockchain’s transparency and security.

2.4 Precium Platform Layer
The Precium Platform Layer has a template creator that implements the terms of the smart
contract as a code and provides them as templates, and a platform user who uses this to
create and use the smart contract.

Precium Platform
Template Creator

Platform User
re

bl

reValidatePurcha

re
equire(_ra
equire(_wall
equire(_tok

ress(0));
ress(0));

re
value;

re
r
equir
equir

ress(0));
ances[msg.sender]);

Precium 13 / 34

equir
re

ances[msg.sender]);

Reward

Onyx Chain

Template creators codify specific contract terms that can be used for smart contracts, test
them directly on the Onyx chain and upload them to the platform. These uploaded templates
are validated on the platform, which prevents various problems that may occur due to errors
in the code. The verified code is made into a template and provided to the Precium platform
user. If the platform user makes a contract using the template, the template creator who
provided the template can receive Onyx Coin as a reward.
The Platform users can build a smart contract by simply combining the contract terms that
they need among the contract templates provided. This smart contract is then saved and
automatically executed on the Onyx chain. As mentioned above, the smart contract’s basic
information is shared through the Onyx chain’s public blockchain, and its detailed information
can be confirmed by the contracting parties through the private blockchain, protecting
confidential information.

The Precium platform provides an
optimal environment for Contract
Creators to make contract templates on
the Onyx chain. Once the Contract Creator
p ro g ra m s t h e c o n t ra c t te r m s t h ro u g h
Precium Solidity, the code is compiled;

Precium Platform

Onyx Chain Develop Environment

bytecode, Function Signature, and ABI
Contract Code

are provided for compilation. Bytecode
is the compiled smart contract code
expressed as hexadecimal numerals, while
Function Signature and ABI contain the
smart contract functions and parameter

Bytecode

Function
Signature

ABI

Compile

Precium 14 / 34

metadata.
Since Onyx chain is built on the
Ethereum-based Quorum, this is the

Contract
Verification

same as Ethereum’s smart contract
development environment. This means
that Onyx chain smart contracts
guarantee as much stability as Ethereum
s m a r t c o n t ra c ts . T h e a u t h o r c a n t h e n

Template

transfer fully-compiled contract code to
the Precium platform, where it is then
va l i d a te d . F i n a l l y, v e r i f i e d te m p l a te i s
added to the platform and provided to
users, and the template creator can be
re w a rd e d fo r t h i s . T h e c re a t e d s m a r t

Smart Contract
Creation

contract template provides platform
users with a convenient and secure smart
contract environment. They can create
s m a r t c o n t ra c t s i n t h e O n y x c h a i n b y
s e l e c t i n g a n d c o m b i n i n g t h e c o n t ra c t
items they want from various contract
templates, which can be freely used and
distributed within the platform.

OnyxChain

Public

Private

Private

ON-CHAIN

1

Request

OFF-CHAIN

3

2

Reward

Precium 15 / 34

Respond

API
API

API
API
API
API

Bringing external information onto the blockchain through Oracle technology is integral to
maximizing the reliability of smart contracts. This is because outside information accessed by
the Oracle is used to determine whether or not a certain smart contract’s conditions have been
fulfilled. To increase reliability and provide developers with optimized APIs, Precium seeks to
partner with organizations and research institutes that develop the APIs that provide external
information to Oracles. Through this, Contract Creators can use reliable external information to
help code contract terms. Additionally, organizations and research institutes that provide APIs
may receive Onyx coins as compensation in proportion to the frequency of use of their APIs
employed in the smart contracts. Beyond simply receiving reliable information, we hope for the
Precium platform to catalyze a variety of markets in which smart contracts can be used.

Precium 16 / 34

2.5 Application

7render ’s is an influencer commerce platform that operates celebrities and mega
influencers based on the network of KCENT, the largest influencer management company
in Korea. With 7render's, Influencers can efficiently advertise and sell products provided by
brands, consumers will be able to buy products at a relatively low prices and rewarded by
participating in related reviews and referral events.
As mentioned in the previous section, Onyx Chain, a hybrid blockchain, has the advantage
of having high transmission speed and high scalability while maintaining transparency.
In addition, the Precium platform provides a structure that enables easy use of smart
contracts and information protection through public and private blocks. These advantages
of Onyx Chain are optimized for the e-commerce market where various contracts are made
between brands, influencers and consumers. 7render's will be utilized as a representative
platform of influencer commerce platform.

2.5.1 Necessity and Role of Onyx Chain

There are a variety of contracts on the Influencer Commerce platform:
■ Product advertising agreement between brand and influencer
■ Sales revenue sharing agreement between brand and influencer
■ Sales revenue sharing agreement between influencer and platform
■ Contract for ordering products between influencer and consumer

Precium 17 / 34

■ Product advertising agreement between platform and brand

Some of the above agreements require that some must be transparently
disclosed to everyone, while some may only be shared between participating
parties. For example, the contracting process between a brand and an
influencer or an ordering and selling process between an influencer and
a consumer must be transparent, but the brand may not want to disclose
the share of revenue with the influencer. In this case, the public blockchain,
where all the information is on the chain and is made public, cannot solve the
problem. Also, due to the nature of the commerce platform, which has various
types of contracts, slow transmission speed of the public blockchain can result
to unexpected problems when used in real life.
Since Onyx Chain is a hybrid form in which both public and private blocks
exist together, above problems can be solved by keeping a part of the contract
content in a private block. In addition, it has faster transfer speed than
public blockchains, making it suitable for real-life use. The various contract
templates provided by the Precium platform can help to make 7render ’s a
safe and powerful commerce platform by allowing brands and influencers to
conveniently create smart contracts.

2.5.2 Ecosystem Components & Service Flow
The 7render ’s ecosystem is composed of influencer, brand, and consumer, with each

Precium 18 / 34

participant’s role as:

■ Brand
- Contact influencers to promote their products and make advertising contracts or offer
to sell products.
- Earn revenue by selling products directly to consumers and share profits with the
platform.
- Register a product on the platform, the brand must stake a certain amount of PCM.

Precium 19 / 34

■ Influencer
- Make an advertising contract with brand, sell products in private market within 7render’s,
and share profits.
- Hold PCM to increase their reputation, giving them the opportunity to promote their market.
■ Customer
- Purchase products from the brand market and receive cashback.
- Purchase products from the influencer market and receive cashback.
- Write review and get rewarded.
- Receive PCM rewards by participating in the referral system.
- Receive various benefits by holding PCM.

3. ONYX CHAIN
3.1 Hybrid Blockchain

Private
Public

oc
ock
Block
N-4

Hash
sh

Hash
ash

oc
ock
Block
N-3

oc
ock
Block
N-2

Hash
sh

oc
ock
Block
N-1

oc
ock
Block
N

Hash
sh

Hash
sh

Precium 20 / 34

ON-CHAIN
OFF-CHAIN

Oracle

Onyx chain is a hybrid blockchain combining public and private blockchains. As shown in the
diagram above, each public block contains the hash value of the private block corresponding to
the pair, securing the connectivity of the two blocks. Thus, while anyone can freely view Onyx
chain’s public blocks, a private block can only be viewed by its corresponding user. In addition,
the private blockchain is used when the Onyx chain receives external information through
Oracle technology. This makes it more efficient than the public blockchain, which requires many
nodes to access the API to validate the contract content.

In conclusion, Onyx chain can be described is a blockchain with the structural nature of a
hybrid blockchain that uses a public blockchain to notarize the hash of a private block.

Onyx chain has a highly efficient structure for using smart contracts. In the case of smart
contracts on a public blockchain, anyone can view the contract’s content regardless of the will
of the contracting parties. In the case of Onyx chain, however, detailed contract information is
stored on private blocks, allowing only the contracting parties to view the content.

3.2 Technical Overview

A variety of consensus protocols can be used on Quorum; QuorumChain, Istanbul
BFT, and Raft are a few representative protocols. They differ in characteristics such as
block generation speed and method and transaction finality. Raft is an asynchronous
consensus protocol used in existing distributed systems. It enables the creation of
a coherent system that can survive even if a portion of the servers comprising the
system fail. Each server will always be in one of three states: Leader, Candidate, or

Precium 21 / 34

Follower.
Normally, there is one leader and the remaining servers are followers. The followers
only respond to the requests of the leader and candidates and do not make any direct
requests themselves. On the other hand, the leader handles all of the clients’ requests,
while a system member transitions to the candidate state when elected to become to
the new leader. Each member saves a term number for the current time in the system;
each term is an arbitrary period of time. These term numbers are exchanged whenever
the servers communicate with each other; in the event that the term numbers are
different, they will update to the most recent one. In addition, a leader or candidate will
become a follower if in possession of an old term number, and requests with the old
term number will be rejected.

Through this process, information is shared among the servers, updates are made, and
the system runs smoothly. The Raft protocol comprises the key components of leader
election, log replication, and safety when reaching consensus among the members of
a distributed system.

■ Leader Election
In the Raft protocol, one of the nodes is elected to be the leader every term. If the leader
election fails that term, then a leader will be elected the next term. The elected node has
strong influence. Here, the leader election ensures that at most one node can be elected as
leader. During a certain period of time, the elected leader communicates with the other nodes
and decides what gets added to the logs.
■ Log Replication
In the Raft protocol, the elected leader handles client requests. Each client request includes a

Precium 22 / 34

command; the leader first appends the command to its log and then sends a remote procedure
call (RPC) to the other nodes so that they can replicate it as well. If the followers respond
slowly, do not perform the operation, or suffer from some network problem, then the leader will
continue to repeat the request until all followers save the appended log. The leader can only
add new entries to the log; it cannot modify or delete existing entries.
■ Safety
Aside from the aforementioned leader election and log replication, the Raft protocol ensures
safety by adding restrictions to each member that can be elected as leader. The leader elected
in a certain term must possess all entries added in previous terms. In other words, whenever a
log entry is added during a certain term it must be the leader’s most recent log entry, thereby
ensuring safety.

Based on the above features, the Raft protocol ensures that
the entire system will continue to operate smoothly even if
certain members of the distributed system fail.

However, since the Raft protocol has features suitable for
private blockchains, it is not suitable for use as a consensus
protocol in the Onyx chain, a hybrid blockchain.

Existing distributed systems are based on the trust of each
Precium 23 / 34

individual member that makes up the entire system. However,
since the Onyx chain combines public and private blockchains,
one should assume that it would be difficult to trust all of
the nodes participating in the system. The entire system
must continue to operate normally even if some nodes act in
their own interest. This introduces a need to supplement the
existing Raft protocol.

3.3 Consensus Protocol for Onyx Chain

The Onyx chain uses a modified version of the Raft protocol that supports
Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT), a technique developed to solve the problem of
unreliable nodes that make up the system.

The new protocol used in the Onyx Chain is based on the Practical Byzantine
Fault Tolerance (PBFT) consensus algorithm. Reaching consensus with the
Precium 24 / 34

existing BFT consensus algorithm is only possible on synchronous networks,
while PBFT can also reach consensus on asynchronous networks with
Byzantine nodes.

In this protocol, each node on the system stores an encrypted hash value
for the log entry; to obtain the log entry’s current encrypted hash value, one
must employ a recursive method using the old encrypted hash values to verify
the integrity and completeness of logs recorded in the past. This is possible
because it uses the characteristics of encrypted hash values accumulated from
previous records. Byzantine nodes can be prevented from tampering with the
logs by matching accumulated logs.
Each node on the Onyx chain has its own public key and private key. Each
node and client shares one another’s public key, while messages are signed
with the node’s private key. The message recipient validates the signature
using the public key of the node that signed; the message is rejected if the
signature is invalid. This system prevents Byzantine nodes from behaving like
normal nodes.

If the current Onyx chain leader is a Byzantine node, then a situation
may arise in which the leader maliciously ignores all system requests.
To prevent this, clients can mediate the leader’s rights if the leader
does not act maliciously. The election of a new leader can also be
initiated, preventing a Byzantine leader from interfering with the system.
Additionally, during a leader election there should be one candidate for
each term; the nodes each become candidates depending on a certain

Precium 25 / 34

schedule for several terms. To initiate the leader election process,
the node must receive a number of election requests above a certain
amount from other clients. This ensures that the leader does not behave
negatively for over a certain period of time and prevents Byzantine nodes
from initiating leader elections at will.
Recently, various techniques are being researched for supporting BFT in
the Raft protocol. Precium will continue to develop a consensus protocol
that can be optimized for the structure of the Onyx chain, eventually
leading the development of a hybrid blockchain.

4. TOKEN ECONOMY

Precium 26 / 34

Precium platform is coexists with Onyx Chain's ONX coin and PCM tokens
based on ERC20, a token standard that guarantees the compatibility of
tokens that can be distributed on the Ethereum network. This is a strategic
choice to provide stability to the ecosystem of many use cases where the
Precium platform will be used. It is very confusing to use only coins that are
not stable value in making contract or selling products on any platform, and it
may cause platform instability.
To solve this problem, the Precium platform enables major contracts and
transactions through ONX, a stable coin that guarantees fixed value. ONX
uses the onyx chain that is used only within the Precium platform and can be
used for various functions such as smart contracts, payments, and rewards.
PCM which price is determined by externally traded market value, can be
applied in many use cases and will allow the token ecosystem to circulate
continuously with appropriate supply and demand within various applications
of the Precium platform. For example, 7renders, the first use case of the
Precium platform mentioned earlier, has the following virtuous circulation
structure:

Precium 27 / 34

■ Demand for PCM token
i. If a commodity supplier wants to build a referral based network through the onyx chain, they
must stake a PCM.
ii. Influencers who sell actual products or have various contracts with brands and customers
can stake PCM to improve their advertising efficiency.
iii. Platform users can stake PCM for more rewards, cashback and discounts on the platform.
■ Supply for PCM token
i. Platform users can purchase products, receive cashback or PCM through product reviews.
ii. Platform users can invite more users through the referral system and receive PCM in return.
Precium platform, which will secure the stability of the monetary value through ONX, will
discover additional use cases even after 7render’s, attracting more users to the platform and
gradually increasing the PCM token circulation.

5. ACTIVATION PLAN
5.1 Roadmap
2018/2H
-China Road Show
-Precium Wallet Release

2017/4Q
-Project Team Build

2018/1H

Precium 28 / 34

-Launch Website,
Whitepaper release
-Private Sale

2019/3Q
-Influencer Commerce Platform V1 Launch
(Influencer Market + Group-buy + Fiat/Token payment)
-Precium Wallet with online/offline payment Release

2019/1H
-KCENT x PRECIUM Influencer Commerce
Platform Beta Launch

2019/4Q
-Precium Onyx Test-net open
-Influencer Commerce Platform V2 Launch
(Mobile Application + SNS
+ Review + Blockchain)

5.2 Marketing strategy
As a blockchain consulting firm, the Precium Foundation has partnered with the KoreanChinese Silk Road International Association, which is responsible for promoting exchange
between Korean and Chinese companies under China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Through
this partnership, the foundation will play a key role as the base for fruitful blockchain
technology exchange between Korea and China. We have also partnered with Kcent, a leading
entertainment group in influencer marketing, and TWOAB, an agency specialized in internet
celebrity marketing in China. We are currently working on the first project to vitalize the
Precium platform, the Influencer Marketing Project.
The Precium platform's Onyx chain provides users with a template of contract terms that
can be used directly to make smart contracts. We plan to support contracts for all tangible
and intangible transactions, including transactions for used items, rentals, employment.
Through future strategic alliances with various enterprises, Precium will expand the real-world
applications of its platform and replace existing middleman-based contract systems not only
in the Korean and Chinese markets but worldwide.
Through training, seminars, and content creation, the Precium Foundation plans to widely
promote not only the Precium platform, tokens, and smart contracts on the platform but also
the benefits of blockchain technology and cryptocurrency. The foundation headquarters is
currently being operated in Korea, with a branch in Singapore and a branch planned to be
established in China in the future. In addition, we will forge relationships with Korea’s top
universities to promote blockchain research and education and help cultivate the talent of
blockchain developers.

6. TOKEN DISTRIBUTION
6.1 Introduction

TOKEN SYMBOL

PCM

TOKEN ISSUED

750,000,000 PCM

TOKEN SALE
(40%)

300,000,000 PCM

Precium 29 / 34

6.2 Token sales and ICO fundraise managements

FUNDRAISE
Reserve
30%
Strategy Partner
10%

Operating
(Including Legal)
13%

$

$
$

Marketing
17%

Platform
Developmant
30%

Precium 30 / 34

Precium 31 / 34

Precium 32 / 34

Precium 33 / 34

8. REFERENCE

-Copeland, Christopher, and Hongxia Zhong. "Tangaroa: a byzantine fault tolerant raft."
-Wang, Dennis, Nina Tai, and Yicheng An. "Byzantine Fault Tolerant Raft."
-Ongaro, Diego, and John K. Ousterhout. "In search of an understandable consensus
algorithm."USENIX Annual Technical Conference. 2014.
-Abraham, Ittai, and Dahlia Malkhi. "The blockchain consensus layer and BFT." Bulletin
of EATCS 3.123
-Buterin, Vitalik. "Ethereum: A next-generation smart contract and decentralized
application platform, 2013."
-Wood, Gavin. "Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger."

Precium 34 / 34

Ethereum project yellow paper 151
-Nakamoto, Satoshi. "Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system."
https://www.jpmorgan.com/global/Quorum
https://github.com/jpmorganchase/quorum
https://raft.github.io/
https://blog.theloop.co.kr/2017/07/04/lft-loopchain-consensus-algorithm/
https://github.com/kadena-io/juno
https://spri.kr/posts/view/21876?code=issue_reports
http://www.itworld.co.kr/news/107168
https://tokenpost.kr/terms/5822
http://it.donga.com/27260
https://tokenpost.kr/terms/5447
http://snowdeer.github.io/blockchain
https://spri.kr/posts/view/21983?code=inderstry_trend
https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/kr/Documents/insights/deloitteanjin-review/07/kr_insights_deloitte-anjin-review-07_10.pdf

Disclaimer of Liability

The content of this whitepaper must not be distributed without the “Exclusion of Liability”
section below. Please carefully review the “Exclusion of Liability” section when reading this
document. It is recommended that anyone unsure about investing consult their professional
advisor, including their legal, financial, or tax advisor.
The purpose of this whitepaper is to provide investors who will participate in the Precium token
ICO with information regarding the Precium token and the Precium token platform, as well as
our vision for the project’s development. This whitepaper is a guide and project explanation only
meant to aid in understanding the content of a potential investment; it is not a guarantee of
development. Therefore, the content of this whitepaper is nonbinding in investment contracts,
Precium 35 / 34

and this document as well is legally nonbinding.
Certain estimates and financial information contained in this document are subject to change
due to uncertain variables. Therefore, all information that can be used to infer earnings and the
like should not be taken as a guarantee of future performance. The whitepaper is subject to
modifications and updates depending on the development situation. No responsibility is assumed
for the accuracy, reliability, or completeness of information related to earnings discussed in the
whitepaper.
As a result, we do not assume legal responsibility for any indirect or incidental occurrences.
However, to maintain accuracy and trust, we will make sincere efforts to ensure that the content
of this document can be confirmed at any time through the corporation or relevant persons
introduced in this whitepaper. We will respond to inquiries related to the information contained
in this white paper at any time.
Although Precium tokens can be used for investing or other financial purposes, we assume no
liability or relation to any profit or loss incurred due to the use of Precium tokens for purposes
other than those outlined in this whitepaper.
Finally, it is recommended that any person or organization residing in a country or territory that
prohibits or otherwise restricts the transaction of digital tokens, digital currencies, and the like
refrain from purchasing or investing in such tokens.

