MalwareChain
(MALW coin)
A distributed anti-malware solution featuring a mixed
Proof-of-Stake/Masternode architecture

White Paper
V.1.0
December 2019

2019. MalwareChain - All rights reserved.

2

Contents
Abstract

4

1. The antivirus software industry: overview and issues
1.1. Anti-malware market: size and trends
1.2. The problem: traditional antivirus products are inefficient

5
5
6

2. MalwareChain: a distributed cybersecurity database, detection engine, and scanner 7
2.1. Ecosystem structure
8
2.2. Malware search and identification
8
2.3. Threat library and system updates
9
2.4. Engine design
9
2.5. Interaction with the platform: file uploading and scanning; Scan nodes
10
2.6. Proof-of-Stake mining
11
2.7. The role of masternodes
11
3. Tokenomics and timeline
3.1. Investing in masternode shares
3.2. Role of the MALW coin
3.3. Types of user rewards
3.4. Coin pre-sale and masternode investments: key information
3.5. Project roadmap

13
14
14
15
17
17

3

Abstract
MalwareChain offers a novel approach to malware detection and removal. It's a distributed
antivirus system, in which any user can run a special client to scan files and links uploaded
by others – and earn a share of the fees in return. The platform implements a network of
masternodes to ensure the integrity of the threat database.
Annual global losses from malware and viruses are close to half a trillion dollars. The
antivirus market makes over $20 billion a year in revenue, with such popular programs as
Norton and McAfee taking the lead. While they are good at repelling well-known threats,
they extremely inefficient when dealing with unknown threats. All antiviruses use the same
method to scan the same areas of the web and devices, and their databases largely overlap.
This leads to a constant waste of resources.
On MalwareChain, resources are pooled and used in the most efficient way thanks to a
system of several types of nodes. Scan nodes perform anti-malware checks; PoS mining
nodes confirm transactions and add new blocks to the chain; Discovery nodes crawl the
web and update the threat library; and masternodes ensure the overarching stability of the
system.
The pre-sale of MALW coins is scheduled to begin on December 2019 MalwareChain
already has a fully functional web-based antivirus client, which will be released before the
pre-sale. In the near future, independent developers will be able to design and add their
own clients to the network and earn a share of the rewards.
The key feature of the platform are investments in masternode shares. Masternodes are the
most profitable type of nodes, but setting up and running a node on one's own is costly and
complex. Instead, users can buy shares in a masternode, pooling their resources. 98% of all
block rewards will be allocated to masternode shareholders.
The White Paper provides a detailed overview of the architecture, tokenomics, features,
rewards, and project timeline. With its complex yet elegant architecture and vast
monetization possibilities, MalwareChain will provide a worthy alternative to traditional
antivirus programs.

4

1. The antivirus software industry: overview and issues
1.1. Anti-malware market: size and trends
Computer viruses and malware cost the global economy more than $450 billion every year.
WannaCry virus alone caused over $4 billion in damages in 2017. Therefore, it's not
surprising that antivirus software is a very large business: the total annual revenue of
companies that make anti-malware exceeds $23 billion. The most popular products for
Windows are Norton by Avast (17%), Malwarebytes, McAfee, and ESET.

Source: safetydetectives.com
(Note: the antivirus market for Apple computers remains small. This is because Mac
computers are much less susceptible to viruses; plus, MacOS includes a very good preinstalled antivirus.)
The most commonly exploited attack vector is Microsoft Office (47% of all attacks on
Windows). Almost 40% of malware is disguised as .doc files. They have replaced .exe files
5

as the number one threat, since users have learned from experience not to open unknown
programs.
The price of most popular antivirus programs ranges from low to medium. The basic
version of Norton Antivirus costs $50 a year; for McAfee, it's $20; Malwarebytes, $40 for
one device. There are also free antivirus software, such as AVG Free, though they come
with a lot of unwanted ads or additional programs that have to be installed.
The main problem of all major antiviruses is not their price, however, but rather their lack
of efficacy. According to some studies, less than 5% of anti-malware programs can quickly
detect and identify new viruses as threats. This is one of the key issues that MalwareChain
aims to solve.

1.2. The problem: traditional antivirus products are inefficient
As we have seen, major antivirus developers, including Kaspersky, Norton, etc. thoroughly
dominate the cybersecurity market. The products they offer are largely interchangeable –
though not interoperable. All these companies utilize the same algorithm to identify and
remove threats – and roughly the same monetization model. Here are its main principles
and issues related to each:
1) The antivirus company's computer systems continuously scan the Internet in search of
new threats.
Inefficiency: all antivirus developers scan the same space, and the threats they find are also
the same. They don't divide the Internet among themselves to make speed up the process
and don't share their findings with each other, either. This can be compared to several
independent surveyors mapping the same area of the forest. They find and add to their maps
the same ditches and cabins, ending up with roughly the same result. Needless to say, a
tremendous amount of resources is wasted this way.
2) Once a previously unknown threat is found, it's analyzed and given a unique identifier.
(hash) The identifier is added to the database.
Inefficiency: A lot of human labour goes into analyzing threats and updating the program.
Since it's all done on site and in developed countries, the companies have to pay relatively
high salaries to their staff. They have no way of using independent specialists who could
charge a lower rate. These costs are later transferred onto the final consumer.

6

3) Recently identified threats are integrated into the next software update.
Inefficiency: updating is not real-time. There is a lag between the moment when a new
virus is discovered and when an end user installs the update that contains a fix. Since new
viruses emerge every day and every hour, actual protection will never be up to date.
Antivirus companies are constrained by their own rigid system of updates.
4) At any given moment, different antivirus databases (and, therefore, software versions)
aren't identical. They largely overlap, but which viruses are included depends on what each
detection system found and how quickly the company managed to introduce new elements
into the next update.
Inefficiency: to achieve maximum protection, end users have to pay for several antiviruses
and run them simultaneously. They mostly duplicate each other and can't collaborate (lack
of interoperability).
5) Antivirus software is resource-hungry.
Inefficiency: This places an unnecessary strain on the device, causing it to slow down and
freeze. To solve the issue, the user has to turn off the anti-malware program, leaving the
computer unprotected.
6) Detection systems sometimes give false positives – they flag files and pieces of code
that aren't actually viruses.
Inefficiency: users find their files and programs blocked for no reason. Sometimes it takes
a long time to google the issue and discover that an antivirus is the culprit. However, often
the only way to unblock a file is to disable the antivirus.
7) Threat databases and updates are stored on centralized servers.
Inefficiency: a hacker can gain access to the server and wreak havoc with the list of viruses.

7

2. MalwareChain: a distributed cybersecurity database,
detection engine, and scanner
2.1. Ecosystem structure
MalwareChain is an advanced decentralized system for identifying and removing viruses.
It comprises a complex ecosystem:
1) Malware hunters (Discovery nodes) – users who work on detecting new threats;
2) Threat library and the hashing algorithm. The complete database of threats and their
hashes is stored in a decentralized fashion. Each threat and each scanned file has its own
hash that serves as a proof that a check has been completed.
3) Engine developers – users who design highly specialized detection engines for specific
virus families and work on improving the basic client;
4) Anti-malware nodes (Scan nodes) and the P2P scanning/matching algorithm. Users run
the antivirus client (proprietary software for distributed threat analysis) to scan files
uploaded by other members;
5) Proof-of-Stake mining nodes: users who confirm transactions and add them to the
blockchain every time a file is scanned for viruses and a reward is paid.
6) Masternodes – higher-level blockchain nodes storing a full copy of the blockchain; they
also carry out overall control of the system.
7) MALW coin: the system's own cryptocurrency, used as collateral for masternodes and
PoS nodes, as well as to pay out rewards.

2.2. Malware search and identification
The threat discovery system of MalwareChain will be distributed – as opposed to
centralized systems employed by Norton and others. Specialized network members
(Discovery nodes) will crawl the web, applications, files, and devices connected to the
network to discover new threats and match them to the database. The whole process is
completely automated. Any newly identified threat will be automatically assigned a unique
cryptographic hash and added to the MalwareChain threat library. The information about
it will be recorded on the blockchain, and all the nodes running the P2P antivirus client
will receive an automatic update.
8

Threat discovery is a relatively resource-intensive process, since it requires a node to crawl
large volumes of data. As a means of compensation, Discovery nodes will receive a reward
for each new threat added to the library. 30% of the fees charged for scanning user files
(see below) will be allocated for the purpose.
Note: the current MVP of Malware Chain is already running an advanced system for
detecting new threats. For now, it's merged with the scanning algorithm and the malware
library. The major difference between the MVP and the upcoming beta release is the
introduction of a decentralized system for discovering vulnerabilities.

2.3. Threat library and system updates
All threat-related data in MalwareChain will be crowdsourced and instantly shared with all
network members. Each virus will be identified using a unique hash stored in the library.
Every node involved in file scanning will have an up-to-date version of the library,
automatically updated whenever a new threat is added by someone in the network. This
gives us reason to call MalwareChain a self-updating decentralized antivirus program.
Adding a virus to the database will be treated as a blockchain transaction with a zero value,
subject to the standard network fee. (However, as mentioned before, malware hunters will
be rewarded for their effort, and the fee itself will be negligible.) Consequently, every
change to the library will in itself receive a hash – a crucial feature for ensuring correct
behavior of all network nodes (see “Masternodes”).

2.4. Engine design
The basic antivirus client for MalwareChain (https://scan.malwarechain.com) will already
be up and running at the moment of the network launch. The source code for the client will
be made open to the public two or three years later. This way, any developers who join the
network can make their own modifications and improvements and present new versions of
the MalwareChain client to the community. Moreover, there's nothing stopping developers
from designing new virus detection engines – as long as they satisfy to the list of
requirements, which will be published soon after launch.
All proposed modifications and new engines will be voted on by the users who own
masternode shares (see below). A client can be approved for official use within the network
as long as it satisfies the following requirements:
- Full compatibility with the MalwareChain blockchain, library, and cryptographic hashing
system;
9

- Open-source;
- The client must have a GitHub page with regular commits;
- Compatible with the specified types of devices run by Scan nodes (see below).
All approved clients will be available in the Downloads section on the platform. Every time
a node starts running a certain client, a record will be made on the blockchain. The client's
creator will receive a reward in MALW coins.

2.5. Interaction with the platform: file uploading and scanning; Scan
nodes
In MalwareChain, end users don't have to install special software to find threats on their
own computers. Instead, they can upload a suspicious file, app or email to the network and
have it analyzed for them. The reason is simple: any antivirus program that is powerful
enough to quickly match a piece of code to a vast list of known threats is bound to slow
down one's computer. This deters many users from buying an antivirus.
By contrast, MalwareChain allows to check any file remotely and almost instantly for a
tiny fee. All that a user needs to do is access the interface via web or a native mobile app,
choose a file, and click on Scan. The file will be automatically sent via a P2P channel to
the first available Scan node.
A Scan node means any user who has one of the approved MalwareChain antivirus clients
running on their device. The job of a Scan node is to process files sent by users for scanning
and detect threats. Some Scan nodes will run on enterprise-grade servers and will be able
to process hundreds of requests per minute. Others will be hosted on retail-grade laptops
and even mobile devices. Users will also be able to decide when to run the client – the
device doesn't need to be online 24/7.
However, those nodes that show the highest speed over time(that is, the lowest average
time per request) will have a higher rating and thus get a precedence. A Scan node earns
50% of the scanning fee, so the more requests it processes, the higher the reward. This will
motivate owners of powerful server hardware to join MalwareChain and make it an
attractive alternative to data storage, fog computing, etc.
After a file has been scanned, the results are sent to the user who had requested the scan, a
detailed report is generated, and a new record is added to the blockchain. This record

10

contains data on the user who requested the scan (and paid the fee), the Scan node that
performed the check, the size of the fee, and the hash for the report in the Input Data field.
If a user tries to upload the same file for a second time, an error message will appear, saying
that the hash matches that of a previously scanned file.
Apart from files stored locally on the computer, it's also possible to enter a link to a file
stored on a cloud or the URL of a website.
It's worth pointing out that the same device can do both scanning and vulnerability search
– that is, act as a Scan and Discovery node at the same time. This requires good hardware,
but it also allows to maximize the fee revenue.

2.6. Proof-of-Stake mining
1% of the maximum supply of MALW coins will be pre-mined and some of them will be
sold at the pre-sale, form a development fund and establish the first industry partnerships.
The rest will be generated via a mechanism of Proof-of-Stake mining.
In order to join the mining, a user needs to purchase a certain amount of MALW and create
a stake – that is, freeze the coins. Everyone who has a stake is eligible for confirming new
blocks, but the reward frequency is determined by the size of the stake.
We note that the minimum stake size is 500 coins. For example, a user whose stake
constitutes 2% of all the issued MALW will have the right to validate 2% of all blocks –
as long as their device is constantly running. In addition, miners will receive a share of the
transaction fees.
For those users who can't leave the laptop on 24/7, it can be more profitable to invest in
MalwareChain masternode shares (see below).
Note that the PoS mining client is different from the antivirus scanning client. Depending
on the available hardware, a user may decide to operate both a PoS node and a Scan node.

2.7. The role of masternodes
MalwareChain masternodes are very different from all others. They don't confirm
transactions or add new blocks to the blockchain. They don't perform antivirus checks,
either. The main purpose of a masternode is to store a complete version of the blockchain.

11

It has to be updated constantly, 24/7 – therefore, a masternode must be up and operational
around the clock.
For a platform like MalwareChain, having multiple up-to-date copies of the blockchain is
crucial, because it contains data on cybersecurity threats and hashes of scan reports. Any
antivirus system is dependent on its past records – perhaps more so than a simple system
for sending money to others. As a consequence, MalwareChain makes its masternodes a
keystone element of the ecosystem, allocating 98% of all block rewards to the users who
operate them.
Apart from safeguarding the integrity of the blockchain, masternodes have a few other
functions:
- Network governance: masternodes can vote on various decisions in the community. This
includes approving or rejecting new antivirus clients, changing the reward allocation
structure, switching to a different system of decentralized data storage, or penalizing users
who abuse the system;
- Instant transactions: users can choose to get their antivirus scan performed instantly ahead
of the queue thanks to the Instant Scan feature. In this case, the transaction is confirmed by
a masternode quorum and executed without delay (a blockchain record is still made, only
somewhat later). The transaction fee is higher for instant scans. Nonetheless, the feature
will be useful to those who work on mission-critical tasks and can't wait to find out if a site
or file is dangerous or not.
- Refusing blocks presented by PoS miners who violate the rules.
An important clarification: proof-of-stake nodes and masternodes are not the same thing.
Running one's own MalwareChain PoS node is easy: one needs to install a mining software
client, stake the necessary amount of coins, and keep the client open when the device is in
use. If the device is offline for some periods of time, nothing happens – the user will simply
confirm fewer transactions and earn less rewards.
A masternode is a very different matter. Since it's so important for the whole network, it
must always be online, updating the blockchain every time a new block is added. If it goes
offline, its operator will be fined. This means that a regular device like a laptop won't do –
the node must run on its own server that ensures at least 99.99% uptime. Consequently,
masternode operators usually rent a virtual private server from a hosting company. It can
be quite expensive but the reward from the work of the masternode will repeatedly cover
12

these costs. Masternodes also require a lot of technical expertise to set up, as well as a very
large stake (known as collateral). The initial investment can reach thousands of dollars.
MalwareChain provides an alternative: buying masternode investment shares. For details
on this solution, see below.

13

3. Tokenomics and timeline
3.1. Investing in masternode shares
Masternodes represent one of the most attractive investment opportunities in the crypto
market. They are much more profitable than PoS mining – and with the current market
slowdown and growing electricity prices, masternodes also yield more profits than
traditional hardware mining or cloud mining.
The disadvantages are the large collateral, technical complexity, and server requirements.
Only a minority users have the money and the expertise to run a full masternode. A solution
to this problem is presented by shared (pooled) investments.
In MalwareChain, users can purchase small shares of a masternode and receive a
corresponding share of the reward. Since every masternode requires a predefined amount
of collateral, it can take some time before sufficient investments are collected to launch a
new node. Normally this waiting period doesn't exceed one week.
The investment mechanism is very simple and intuitive. A user chooses the amount they
are willing to invest and makes the collateral deposit in MALW. Once there is enough
funds to launch a node, the user receives a notification. After that, rewards automatically
start accruing. There is a special formula for calculating each investor's daily reward. It
depends on the total number of minted blocks during a period, reward per block, and
number of masternodes in operation.
Owners of masternode shares can instantly withdraw their rewards to their blockchain
wallet. The same goes for the collateral itself. Thanks to a special advanced algorithm
employed by MalwareChain, there is no need to disassemble a node when one of its
shareholders decides to withdraw.
How this will be technically implemented? MalwareChain will be added to the most
popular shared masternode service which will guarantee complete protection of customer
funds. In addition, will be realized the opportunity to invest in “instant” shared maternodes
within our own ecosystem.

3.2. Role of the MALW coin
MALW is the fuel that powers the whole MalwareChain ecosystem, from threat discovery
to mining. Pre-mined coins (which constitute only a small portion of the maximum total
supply) will be available for purchase during the pre-sale. After the completion of the pre14

sale, new coins will be minted in the process of PoS mining. New coins will be distributed
among different groups of beneficiaries: miners, masternode investors, Scan nodes,
Discovery nodes, and developers.
Here are the main functions of MALW:
- Paying for antivirus scans and other services (threat detection, development of antivirus
clients. It will also be possible to pay in BTC, ETH and other cryptocurrency, but users
who choose to pay for scanning in MALW will enjoy lower fees;
- Staking for PoS mining; the stake can be unfrozen and withdrawn at any moment without
any penalty. Naturally, the user won't receive any mining rewards anymore.
- Collateral when buying masternode shares. Users can withdraw their collateral deposit at
any moment instantly;
- Blockchain transaction fees;
- Block rewards for PoS miners;
- Reward payouts for owners of masternode shares;
- Rewards for Discovery nodes that identify new threats and add them to the library;
- Rewards for developers who improve on the official antivirus client or develop new ones
(awarded whenever a client is approved by the community); apart from this reward, a
developer receives a small payout every time a Scan node downloads and runs a client they
developed);
- Voting (only for users who own masternode shares); a minimal amount has to be sent to
cast a vote, which is written into the Input Data field;
- Money transfers – users can treat MALW as any other cryptocurrency: trade it at a crypto
exchange, send it to each other's blockchain wallets, etc.;

3.3. Types of user rewards
Every member of the ecosystem will have ways to earn MALW. This will ensure an
uninterrupted and ever-growing circulation of the coin within the ecosystem. Below is a
list of the key sources of income for project participants:

15

1) Investing in masternodes. 98% of block rewards will be allocated to the owners of
masternode shares and divided according to each investor's share in the total pool and the
amount of time that has passed since they joined. Accumulated masternode rewards can be
withdrawn instantly at any moment. The setup and maintenance of the nodes will be carried
out by the platform. Therefore, of all the ways of earning with MalwareChain, this one is
best-suited for users who don't own a powerful device.
2) Running a Scan node (analyzing files and links uploaded by users) – 50% of the fee
charged for each scanning operation. The final price for the scan of each file or website
depends on the amount of data processed. Owners of enterprise-grade hardware will
naturally have an advantage, running dozens of requests per minute and generating a
substantial income. Though scanning fees can also be paid in BTC (and, in the future, other
cryptocurrencies), all rewards will be paid in MALW. The platform will automatically
convert BTC into MALW using the best available exchange rate.
3) Proof-of-Stake mining: 2% of the block reward. Requires a stake in MALW (min 500)
and a mining client, which can be installed on any device connected to the Internet
(including a smartphone in the future). Users with larger stakes have a better chance to add
a new block, so on average their income will be higher.
4) Operating a Discovery node - crawling the web and devices for new, previously
unknown viruses and malware, and adding them to the library. 30% of the scanning fees
are distributed among all nodes that added new threats to the database in a given period in
proportion with each node's input. Example: suppose that 2000 MALW are to be
distributed. Node 1 discovered 10 threats, Node 2 added 20, Node 3 detected 30, and Node
discovered 40 threats (a total of 100 threats). Therefore, Node 1 will receive 10% of the
total reward (200 MALW); Node 2, 20% (400 MALW); Node 3, 30% (600 MALW); and
Node 4, 40% (800 MALW).
5) Developing new versions of the antivirus client. Each new client needs to be approved
by the users who have a vote (masternode investors). After approval, the client can be used
by any Scan node. Whenever a Scan node installs a specific client, the developer gets a
small reward. Further, 10% of all scanning fees are allocated to those developers who built
the respective clients. Example: Scan nodes running the client Snowflake generated $500
in scanning fees in a given month. 10% of this sum, or $50, will be awarded to Developer
Bob who created Snowflake.
6) Bounty program: MalwareChain will run a bounty campaign where any participant can
receive free MALW for completing easy tasks. They include sharing the official news
16

posted by the project, publishing original posts about MalwareChain, creating video
reviews and articles, posting on blockchain forums, etc. The reward can reach $100, as
long as the content is unique and engaging.

3.4. Coin pre-sale and masternode investments: key information
Ticker:
Number of decimals:
Algorithm:
Maximum total supply:
Pre-mine:
Block reward:
Masternode reward:
PoS validator reward:
Average block time:
Coin maturity period:
Blockchain:
Masternode collateral:
Minimum Input Age for Staking:

MALW
8
Proof of stake + masternodes
315 000 000 MALW
3 150 000 (1%)
4.0 MALW
98%
2%
60 seconds
180 minutes
Proprietary blockchain based on PIVX
5000 MALW
12 hours

3.5. Project roadmap
Completed: Q2-3 2019
- Researching the antivirus market, analyzing other blockchain antivirus projects,
formation of the idea, hiring key team members;
- Analysis of the masternode investment market; planning of the project tokenomics;
- Development of the alpha release of the antivirus app;
- Work on the proprietary blockchain
Q4 2019
- Publication of the White Paper and launch of the official website;
- Wallet release;
- Antivirus web version MVP launch
17

- MALW coin pre-sale;
- MALW is listed on 1 or 2 exchanges;
Q1 2020
- Company's legal registration
- Staff expansion
- Finalizing the threat hashing algorithm;
- Work on the distributed threat library;
Q2 2020
- Social Media Marketing campaign
- Enabling DAO (Network governance)
- Development of reward distribution subsystem for Discovery/Scan nodes
- Using blockchain for complete data storage
Q3 2020
- Launch of the beta version of the app;
- Work on the native apps for iOS and Android;
- First 20+ Discovery nodes join the network
- Launch of the distributed threat library
Q4 2020
- Release of the apps for Android and iOS;
- First votes on project governance by masternode shareholders;
- Attracting developers to join the network and design new antivirus clients

18

Q1 2021
- First alternative antivirus clients are released;
- Developers of alternative clients receive first rewards;
- Work on a decentralized storage solution for scan reports based on IPFS.
Q2 2021
- Listing on more exchanges;
- Target number of Scan nodes: 2500
- Target number of Discovery nodes: 250
- Target number of alternative antivirus clients: 5;
- Target monthly number of scanned files/links: 100 000.

19

