WHITEPAPER

LT BlockChain, Ecosystem &
Marketplace DAPP
A unique technology that offers an all-in-one solution for travel and business

Introduction
LockTrip is powered by innovation. Our project was born out of a game-changing
idea and has since gone through multiple stages of evolution. All stages have been
developed via an extensive feedback loop, which includes our community, our
developers and LockTrip management.
Each stage built on the previous ones.
Each stage identified different problems that were turned into opportunities.
Each stage opened up endless possibilities.
As a result, this whitepaper touches on a multitude of new and unique ideas and
aims to communicate the architectural ecosystem we are envisioning for both the
travel and the blockchain industry of the future.
In the recent past, many misrepresented blockchain as something magical that
automatically solves any problem. Instead, this whitepaper showcases how
LockTrip will solve some of the most pressing issues of the travel industry by
intelligently applying new technologies, which happen to include blockchain
technology in a very central way.
Not only that, but it also tells an interesting story of how acquiring extensive
experience in building and growing a business in a not yet matured technological
environment lead to the development of our own ​business-oriented blockchain​.

Enjoy the read.

www.locktrip.com

1

Executive Summary
LockTrip is a multifaceted project consisting of three elements. The first is a travel
marketplace, hosted at ​LockTrip.com​. It allows customers to book hotels and
vacation rentals on average 20% cheaper than leading competitors such as
Booking.com, Expedia and Airbnb. Flights are also available, priced around 5%
cheaper than the competition.
We are also developing a distributed database as a marketplace-supporting
infrastructure. This is the second element of LockTrip, and through it we aim to
disrupt the inventory distribution industry. The main goal is to give back the control
of prices to hotels and to improve transparency as well as efficiency. At the same
time, the distributed database will make it possible for all travel agencies to
effectively synchronize and source inventory without paying commissions or fees.
Both the marketplace and the distributed database operate at 0% commission,
which eliminates substantial costs along the supply chain for hotels, hosts, airlines,
travel agencies and last but not least, travelers.
The third element is the LockTrip Blockchain, which enables the smooth operation
of the first two elements. It’s also optimized for other businesses that have identified
a requirement for blockchain technology. It’s our solution to a series of real world
issues that businesses currently face on the road to building a competitive and
cost-efficient product. For these reasons, a large portion of this whitepaper is
dedicated to the LockTrip Blockchain.

www.locktrip.com

2

1. The Travel Industry Needs a Tidy Up
Imagine a very chaotic and extremely inefficient industry with an annual turnover of
more than $700 billion and growth rates of above 10% per year. Add monopolistic
structures and the abuse of power to that equation and you get a very accurate
description of today’s travel industry. In the following pages, we have outlined the
most pressing issues the industry is currently facing.
Later, we will show how LockTrip is determined to tackle them one by one, and how
these elements combined form a new ecosystem.

1.1. Inefficient Inventory Distribution
Do you know how hotels connect to their customers? One would expect that in a
mature industry this would be a very simple and straightforward process. But the
current state of the travel industry tells us differently. Let’s examine the process in
detail.
As a first step, hotels partner up with property management software (PMS)
providers. PMS eases the task of synchronizing hotel information (prices, room
descriptions, availability) across multiple subsystems. In other words, it’s a service
that exists for the purpose of synchronizing data with other services. The PMS is
then integrated with channel management software. This is another piece of
software that ensures connectivity between all the retail channels through which
the hotel sells its inventory.
Along the way, there are also multiple wholesale inventory distributors, travel
agencies and booking engines involved. The job of the distributor is to sign up and
offer the inventory of the hotel to retail channels all around the world. ​Sounds
sensible, right?
Well, buying and reselling inventory is an easy business model to implement, which
is why there are currently more than 250 major wholesale inventory distributors
actively competing against each other. And more often than not, they end up
buying inventory through the same smaller geo-specific wholesale inventory
distributors. This immense competitive pressure forces distributors to heavily
negotiate prices with hotels on an individual basis, to secure rooms at the lowest
possible price.

www.locktrip.com

3

As the outcome of those negotiations is the only distinguishing criterion between
distributors, it results in hundreds of distributors with differently negotiated prices,
and a requirement to periodically re-negotiate in order to remain competitive.
All the distributors then need to partner up with retail booking sites and traditional
travel agencies to resell their acquired inventory.
QUICK FACT:​ 80% of all bookings placed online go through only two
booking sites (Booking.com and Expedia).
So on many occasions, the majority of distributors are competing to sell o
​ ne and the
same​ inventory with the only distinguishing factor being the price, which they all
negotiate with ​one and the same​ hotel.
Every distributor then has to periodically negotiate special terms with each booking
site. S
​ tarting to get complicated?
It doesn’t end there. Since every distributor has individually negotiated contracts,
significant price differences can emerge between them. In an ecosystem full of
reselling commissioners (which distributors are), it makes only sense to not only
resell to booking sites, but also to other resellers. As a result, it is quite common for
inventory to go through multiple resellers before actually being presented to the
customer. Hotel owners have no choice but to pay exorbitant integration and
inventory management costs in order to continuing existing in this chaotic
ecosystem. A system which they rely so heavily upon to make a living.
In addition, the travel industry is extremely dynamic and price sensitive. The supply
and demand ratio of inventory can quickly get out of balance, which is taken
advantage of by distributors and booking sites, who continuously adjust their
commissions to benefit from the new situations.
Can you imagine the chaos caused by hundreds of intermediaries, with their sole
differentiating factor being their negotiation skills, trying to buy and sell the same
thing to the same customers with constantly changing commissions?
Nobody can see through that chaos. No hotel, no booking site, and not even the
intermediaries themselves.

www.locktrip.com

4

1.2. High Commissions
Of course, the chaos described above comes at a cost. Even though distributors face
extreme competition from 250+ competitors, they still have to charge fees ranging
between 3 to 5% just to support their resource-intensive negotiating strategies.
Nevertheless, these fees are nothing compared to the absurdly high commissions
(15 to 30%) taken by booking sites. Unlike inventory distributors, booking sites can
take advantage of their monopolistic position and couple it with rate parity
agreements (see section 1.3) to secure themselves unfair commissions without
providing any added value to the end customer (no wonder more and more
jurisdictions are illegalizing rate parity agreements).
This means that if you pay $100 for a hotel, you are likely paying around $20 to the
booking site and $3 to $5 to a distributor. Needless to say, you are not getting extra
value for those charges. The room does not get any bigger and the service does not
improve either. Actually, the opposite is true. The hotel is missing out on significant
revenue, which it could otherwise invest in providing a better quality of service.
LockTrip will enable this to happen.

www.locktrip.com

5

Who Rules the Online Travel Market?

Source: Digital Market Outlook

1.3. Monopolies and Rate Parity Agreements
As mentioned above, just two booking sites dominate the online travel industry with
a combined market share of 80%. How is this possible?

Rate Parity Agreements
The reason lies within a very controversial method used by those two companies.
They utilize their market power to force so-called “rate parity agreements” onto
hotels. These legally-binding agreements prohibit hotels (and other parties) from
publicly selling rooms at prices below those displayed on Booking.com or Expedia.

Example:
A hotel asks $100 per night for one of its rooms. Booking.com puts a commission of
20% on top, which puts the displayed price on their site at $120. Due to rate parity
agreements, no other booking site is now allowed to sell below $120. The hotel is
not even allowed to offer a cheaper price on its own website!

www.locktrip.com

6

This is how Booking.com and Expedia, ... are able to offer a “best price guarantee”.
It gives them an immense amount of market power, as it basically eliminates any
competition through such agreements. But why would hotels agree to these
contracts? Because they are dependent on the customers coming from those two
booking sites. No large hotel can survive being left out of the most powerful booking
generators out there.

“The chart below shows how effective this strategy is. Priceline significantly
dominates the industry and has an easy job protecting its market share.”

www.locktrip.com

7

1.4. Biased Algorithms
Algorithms have changed the whole world. They now influence everything from the
financial system to your social media feed, and most importantly the ads you are
seeing. While this is definitely scary and much can be written about data privacy
and ethical boundaries, the travel industry has even bigger issues.
Have you ever wondered what determines which hotel shows up first when you
search a booking site? There are algorithms at work here, but what are the
determining criteria?
Naturally, hotel and property owners are interested in such criteria. Unfortunately,
most booking sites lack transparency when it comes to that topic. And while
companies like Google also don’t like sharing such information, the situation with
booking sites is different.
This is because of the varying commission structures of the travel industry, which
were described earlier. If you were the owner of a booking site and you had to
choose between displaying a hotel getting you 5% commission and another one
getting you 25%, which one would you promote? How can you guarantee your
clients that your decision was not influenced by the conflict of interest you were
facing?
The thought experiment only gets worse when considering that the hotels
themselves have no power over the commissions charged. They don’t even know
them (due to the complexity of the re-seller networks).
This is why hotel and property owners are highly concerned about this situation.
Are they really treated fairly? In relation to this, the competition watchdog in the UK
found “several areas of concern” after an eight month investigation into booking
sites. You can read more about it​ ​here​.

2. How LockTrip Solves Those Issues
Do you feel frustrated by this? Well, many players in the travel industry do too, and
LockTrip is coming to their rescue!

www.locktrip.com

8

2.1. Distributed Database
As mentioned earlier, distributing inventory itself is not difficult. After all, buying and
reselling things is one of the oldest human expertises. So what is causing the chaos?

1) Lack of trust
→ Hotels rely on booking sites for their survival. Losing access to the constant
stream of bookings generated by booking sites quickly becomes an existential
threat, especially for bigger chains. From their perspective, it is simply too risky to
rely on only one, or a select few, inventory distributors. If for some reason a few of
their distributors decide to break the partnership, the hotel needs to have back-up
partners available to work with.

Solution:
Our distributed database will be hosted on a blockchain and not be subject to any
single authority (including us) or failure point. Due to the nature of blockchains, it
will be open to everyone and remain functional as long as the blockchain exists
(which is basically forever). This saves hotels a lot of trouble, as they can rely on a
trustless environment and be sure that the infrastructure they built on will not
disappear the next day.
An analogy can be made with the internet. It is wildly successful and adopted by
millions of businesses because they can all be sure that their websites will continue
to be available tomorrow.

www.locktrip.com

9

2) Profit margins and lack of transparency
→ Distributors need to apply profit margins on top of inventory prices, but also feel
pressure from the price-sensitive industry. This is why they adjust their
commissions every few minutes while their competitors do the same. Together with
the individually negotiated base prices, this creates an inscrutable price structure.
No one can tell how a displayed price really came to be.

Solution:
Hotels can connect directly to the LockTrip distributed database and set their prices
according to their own needs. These set prices are then offered to all the booking
sites connected to our distributed database. Without adding any commissions. This
creates a very transparent distribution system at no cost to the user, and without
the need for resource-intensive negotiations. And not only that, it also provides
equal opportunity to all connected booking sites.

Distributed Database: Key Characteristics
●

A trustless environment for inventory that is open to everyone

→ Eliminates the need to secure dozens of partners in order to guarantee
constancy (both from the perspective of hotels and booking sites).
●

Handles payment processing in a trustless environment

→ Upon booking a hotel, funds are stored in the form of LOC tokens in a
cryptographically-secured booking smart contract. They stay there until the

www.locktrip.com

10

customer checks out, after which the payment is automatically made to the
hotel. This allows customers to initiate a dispute if the hotel does not fulfil its
promise. The smart contract acts as an automated escrow account.
●

High flexibility of payment scenarios

→ Hotels can choose from a great variety of smart contracts, which are all
designed to support different payment scenarios, some of them not being
available on conventional booking sites.
●

Prices are set directly by the hotels

→ Eliminates the need to periodically re-negotiate prices with middlemen
and gives back the control to hotels.
●

Distribution at 0% commission

→ Eliminates the cost arising from the chain of distributors between the hotel
and the booking site.
●

Instant distribution

→ Inventory is distributed to all marketplaces connected to the distributed
database instantly, at the prices set by hotels.
●

Reduces entry barriers for new booking sites

→ Makes inventory available to any booking site, regardless of the booking
volume it generates. This has the potential to kickstart a new wave of
booking sites that previously faced high entry barriers due to required
booking quotas.
●
Turnkey solution with easy integration
→ Makes it possible for travel agencies to adopt our solution without any
technical knowledge or blockchain expertise.

2.2. No commissions
The biggest issue with the industry is, of course, the high commissions enforced by
booking sites. Our solution is not to simply reduce commissions, but rather to
eliminate them​ altogether. How is this possible?
There are only two reasons to take commissions. They can be required to cover
operational expenses, or to generate profits. At LockTrip, we also need to cover
costs and we also want to be profitable. But we don’t rely on commissions for either
of them.

www.locktrip.com

11

Covering Operational Costs - The Freemium Model
In order for us to sustain our project, we need to cover operational costs
and thus operate at break-even. Since we insist on maintaining our
promise of 0% commission, we chose the “freemium” model of
monetization as a tried and true alternative.
This means that we are providing free access to all the basic services
needed to place a booking, while offering optional premium features that
improve the booking experience. Hotels and other travel-related
businesses can also opt for such premium features to increase their
booking rates or simplify their processes. The exact fees for such
features will be determined based on gathered data and experience,
however they will surely be insignificant when compared to the
traditional ones (e.g 1%-3%).
But isn’t this just a different way of collecting commissions?
No, because it will always be possible to complete a booking without
paying us a single cent. You only pay for features that you actually want.
Conventional booking sites, on the other hand, do not give you the option
to choose the services you get. You get all of them, whether you want
them or not. How often have you actually used customer support? Maybe
never - but you can be sure that you have paid a service fee for it every
single time!

www.locktrip.com

12

Profit through LOC Appreciation
We have given a lot of thought into this and have finally come up with a
solid business model that can replace conventional models by utilizing
blockchain technology.
Our solution: Generating profit through turnover rather than from
commission-based profit margins.
Contrary to many other cryptocurrency projects where tokens have been
forcefully inserted into existing business models for the sake of justifying
an ICO (initial coin offering), our project was developed from the ground
up with the native LOC in mind. Every interaction with the distributed
database, every booking placed on the marketplace and every
transaction executed on our blockchain has a direct relationship to LOC.
In fact, LOC plays such a central role that its value is mathematically
determined to rise with increasing booking volumes. There is a
mathematically-guaranteed relationship between the booking rate and
the minimum LOC price, which can be calculated. More info on that can
be found in section 10.1.
This guarantee means that we can abandon conventional revenue
generation methods (such as commissions) and rely entirely on LOC
value appreciation as a profit source without exposing ourselves to any
risk. The volatility of LOC becomes irrelevant since a variation in profit
has no effect on company operations.
Both the company and the team members are LOC holders. And both
will only profit if LOC holders do so too. This aligns the interests of
LockTrip with those of all LOC holders.

Implementing only the freemium model or developing only an alternative profit
source would make for a great conventional booking site competitor, but the effect it
would have on the industry would be limited.
These two models only become a disruptive power once merged into a single
product, enabling average savings of 20% on hotel bookings and 5% on flights in a
very price sensitive industry.

www.locktrip.com

13

2.3. No Commissions Means no Biased Algorithms
The fact that we do not take any commissions from our operations also removes the
conflict of interest described in section 1.4. From our perspective, any inventory
yields the same benefit, which makes us indifferent to customers’ choices.
As a result, it is in our interest to provide our customers with the best experience
possible and to treat hotel and property owners fairly. The interests of all parties in
the ecosystem are perfectly aligned.

2.4. But Wait. What about Rate Parity Agreements?
The savings are great, but we are still left with rate parity agreements. Those are
designed specifically to block innovators like LockTrip. The good news is,they are
quickly fading away. More and more countries are m
​ aking them illegal​ and hotels as
well as property owners are starting to fight back fiercely.
Without rate parity agreements, booking sites will see their commissions quickly
dry-up.
LockTrip is perfectly positioned to lead the final wave of resistance and make such
agreements redundant once and for all. Our distributed database will significantly
reduce entry barriers into the market through its free and easily accessible
inventory. A new wave of innovative and more efficient marketplaces will further
break the monopoly of current booking sites and thus reduce the leverage they have
over hotels.
As the fight intensifies and success becomes inevitable, we expect to see an
explosion of new booking startups. Our distributed database will be ready to
support all of them!
Through it, regional sites will gain access to much stronger inventory and global
sites can focus on their user experience and on adding value for customers. Many
new concepts and business models will fuel the industry with innovation and
variety, all powered by the LockTrip database. The LockTrip Marketplace will play an
important role as a proof-of-concept.

www.locktrip.com

14

“Our prices are so competitive that we are not allowed to display them publicly.”
Nikola Alexandrov - CEO of LockTrip

The key word here is “publicly”. Marketplaces are allowed to sell inventory at any
prices they want, as long as they are not displayed publicly, which in legal terms
means to keep them behind a login interface. This is why we have created a very
simple registration & login mechanism that enables high conversion rates.
As a temporary solution, we are displaying public prices in LOC instead of fiat
currencies, which is in compliance with rate parity agreements. Once rate parity
agreements are completely abolished, we will be able to show our prices in public.

3. Why we Need a Blockchain
Blockchain technology is essential for the implementation of the following elements
of our project:
● To support the LOC economy and thus our profit source, which enables our
0% commission marketplace
● To support the distributed database, which will cut out commissions from
distributors and further contribute to the LOC economy ​(see section 10)
● To enable a trustless environment which is a necessary requirement for the
adoption of the distributed database
● To automate payment processing
● To act as highly secure escrow accounts for the period between booking and
check-out
● To host immutable reviews

www.locktrip.com

15

The 4 Stages of Our Decentralization Strategy
1) Decentralizing the Economy
→ Launch LOC as a utility token that can be used within the LockTrip
ecosystem
→ Lower retail prices
→ Build a micro-economy around LOC
This stage has already been completed and has been validated as
technically and economically viable.

2) Decentralizing the Booking Mechanisms
→ Provide unmatched protection and transparency through smart contracts
→ Automate payment settlement and eliminating the need for a trusted party
→ Support the main driver for demand in the token economy (LOC being
locked away from the market)
This has been completed and will be expanded upon with the LockTrip
blockchain.

3) Decentralizing Inventory
→ Attract hosts and hotels to publish their listings and availability to a cross
blockchain protocol
→ Return full control over prices and availability to service providers
This is currently in progress.

4) Decentralizing the Distribution
→ Become fully redistributable to other DAPPs (distributed applications)
→ Connect to multiple booking sites and acting as a 0% commission
distributor
This is a future milestone.

www.locktrip.com

16

4. Technological Hurdles Facing
Current Blockchains
We have gathered valuable experience in terms of establishing a business on a
blockchain. LockTrip is not simply utilizing a blockchain for basic payment solutions.
We are making it the foundation of the travel bookings industry. In doing so, we
have identified specific roadblocks to adoption in current blockchain solutions.
While the blockchain industry has made great leaps in the past few years, it has so
far ignored these critical issues that act as barriers for businesses to adopt
blockchain.

4.1. Unpredictable Transactional Fees
Business developers need to know the exact costs associated with the building
blocks of their business. Since blockchain is essentially a transaction-based
technology, not knowing how much a transaction will cost you means not knowing
if your business will be viable or not.
In the chart below, you can see how volatile those fees can become. Within one
month, transaction fees have seen volatility of 700%. Unfortunately, it was not a
single event. Fees can turn out to be much more volatile than the underlying
currency itself. It results from the underlying fee determining mechanism, which is
based on an auction system. A system that is designed to produce spectacular
results (prices).

www.locktrip.com

17

Ethereum Average GasPrice Chart
Source: Etherscan.io

Fee volatility becomes especially dangerous for two types of businesses.
1) Businesses that sell low-priced products where the transaction fee makes up
a significant share of the total price. In such a case, a seven-fold increase can
ruin your business model overnight. And there is no guarantee that 7x is the
limit.
2) Businesses that utilize complex smart contracts. Transactions can quickly
become data-heavy when the smart contract requires many parameters to
execute properly. If your transaction is 10 times as data-heavy as an average
transaction, then any fee volatility will also affect you 10 times more.
LockTrip fits into category 2, and we have experienced the risks firsthand.
In some early cases, a single booking transaction generated more than $20 in fees.
This was one of the reasons why we decided to develop our own blockchain. We
are confident that other businesses will join us in utilizing the LockTrip blockchain to
overcome such transaction fee risk.

4.2. Lack of Sustainability
For businesses, being able to rely on robust technology is very important. Every
change in infrastructure causes high costs and brings with it new risks. So what are
the sustainability issues of current blockchains?
Current blockchains are fueled by artificial block rewards that pose long term
systemic risk. This is because the rewards will eventually be depleted. If there are
not enough transactions to incentivize the owners of the underlying nodes to

www.locktrip.com

18

continue operation, it could trigger a collapse in node infrastructure/ blockchain
security, followed by a collapse in value.
Artificial rewards provide miners with unproportionally high incentives that
encourage them to install more and more mining equipment. Once these incentives
run out, miners’ upkeep costs will no longer be economically justifiable, and many
will cease operations. This could make the network extremely vulnerable, as the
mining capacity of the remaining miners could quickly exceed 51% of the new total
and thus give them full access to do as they wish on the blockchain.
Not only that, but as the value of the reward is bound to the value of the underlying
coin, this would further intensify the collapse.
In addition, the proof of work mechanism utilized by most blockchains is effectively
a race between miners to consume the highest amount of energy. It has become a
machine to destroy value and causes harm to the environment.

4.3. Lack of Plug and Play Solutions for a Distributed
Database Capable of High Bandwidth
Businesses don’t need to process all of their data on blockchains to effectively
become decentralized. On the contrary, only important transactions should be
stored on-chain, while auxiliary transactions that are data and bandwidth intensive
should be executed and stored off-chain. This data, however, should be supported
by the nodes that make up the infrastructure on the blockchain.
A blockchain offering a secondary distributed layer that can be used for the storage
of off-chain information and as a standardized means of communication between
DAPPs does not yet exist.
In order to fully achieve its vision, LockTrip is dependent on such a trustless
database solution.

www.locktrip.com

19

4.4. Requirement for a Native Coin to Execute Token
Transactions
If you ever have sent a token across the Ethereum network, you have surely realized
that in addition to the token you want to send, a small amount of Ethereum is
needed to pay the transaction fee. So a total of two different cryptocurrencies are
needed in order to send a single type. For individuals this may be a mere
inconvenience, but for businesses it represents a real barrier to operations.
Just think about the difficulty of educating millions of potential customers about the
requirement to own a second currency. And explaining to them that the amount of
the second currency they need to use will always be dependent on the will of some
unknown miners. And that they need to maintain a safety margin to make sure the
transaction will not get stuck on the way. And that they will very likely never get
back the unused remainder of the margin as it would require another transaction to
return the remainder, which will very likely consume it in the process.
For us as a DAPP developer and an Ethereum-based ERC20 token, this has proven
to be a serious problem, because travellers that want to use LOC as a payment
method don’t want to bother with a second currency. This is a challenging and
frustrating task even for cryptocurrency users, which acts as a roadblock to mass
adoption.
For application developers that want to use their token as an in-app currency, there
are many ways to make it user-friendly for the token itself. But the need for the
native coin renders most of those attempts useless or ineffective. In particular,
transaction-heavy applications like decentralized exchanges suffer greatly from it.

4.5. Scalability Issues
Another highly problematic issue is scalability. Here we are not referring to the
much-debated “transactions per second” aspect of scalability, which is addressed in
section 5.1. We are referring to scalability at the wallet level.
On the Ethereum blockchain, it is very easy to execute a single transaction without
issues. But have you ever tried executing two or more transactions from the same
wallet at the same time? You will notice that such an experiment will cause huge

www.locktrip.com

20

confusion on the network and likely result in hours of delays and/or failed
transactions.
Such a limitation turns out to be very problematic when it comes to developing
innovative use cases, and more importantly, growing a business. Congestion will be
guaranteed for any business that executes more than 1 transaction per minute from
the same wallet. Products with high adoption process hundreds or thousands of
transactions per minute. Being able to use a single wallet for all of them would
simplify many things and open up completely new possibilities.

4.6. Blockchains are Not Truly Shared Economies
When you execute a transaction on the Bitcoin or Ethereum network, you pay a
transaction fee to a miner, who in return processes your transaction. Sounds fair,
right? Think again!
1. Only a handful of professional miners are profiting from the transactional
economy created by network participants around the world. This is simply
because proof of work requires mining equipment and a lot of energy, which
are both subject to economies of scale. A miner that buys 10,000 mining rigs
will get a better price than someone who only buys 1 or 5. Energy costs can
also be highly dependent on your geographical location and thus create
unfair advantages.
2. Miners don’t necessarily have to be affiliated with a blockchain. They do not
need to care about the future of a blockchain, as they can easily switch to a
different one in a matter of seconds. They do not need to care about how
much people pay for transactions, as they do not need to own the native coin
and can thus remain agnostic towards future adoption.

→ Miners get ​100%​ of the reward while carrying 0
​ %​ of the risks
associated with a blockchain
→ Network participants get ​0%​ of the reward while carrying ​100%​ of
the risks associated with the blockchain
3. Projects building their businesses on a blockchain do not get rewarded for
the transactional economy they create through their product, service or
community.

www.locktrip.com

21

5. The LockTrip Blockchain: A solution
to Those Hurdles
The LockTrip Blockchain will be a strongly business-oriented blockchain and is thus
designed to solve all of the issues described above.

5.1. Gas prices to be fixed in Fiat Voted Upon
Our solution with the LockTrip Blockchain will provide transactional gas cost
predictability through a governed and stable gas price protocol. The gas price will
be governed by nodes through a voting mechanism and will be bound to a fiat
value. The fiat rate will be governed by an oracle that will monitor exchanges where
the underlying LOC cryptocurrency is traded on. The end result will be a blockchain
that has a fixed USD cost per transaction, irrespective of the LOC price.
In addition to the improved fee-determining mechanism (voting vs. auction), the
LockTrip Blockchain will also have 10 times the transaction capacity of Ethereum,
without sacrificing decentralization. A less congested network means lower
transaction fees.
As a result, LockTrip (and other businesses running on the LockTrip Blockchain) will
enjoy a stable, predictable transaction fee structure and thus avoid unnecessary
business risks.

Some Quick Numbers
● As of early 2019, Ethereum is averaging around 5
​ 00,000 - 600,000
transactions per day
● The maximum capacity of Ethereum is estimated to be around 1
​ ,400,000
transactions per day
● As of early 2019, Bitcoin is averaging around ​250,000​ transactions per day
● The maximum capacity of Bitcoin is estimated to be around 6
​ 00,000
transactions per day
● The LockTrip Blockchain aims to achieve ​12,000,000​ transactions per day

www.locktrip.com

22

5.2. Utilization of the Proof of Stake Consensus
mechanism
The LockTrip blockchain will be based on the proof of stake (PoS) mechanism.
Contrary to proof of work, PoS block validators need to stake their own
cryptocurrency in order to validate blocks. This ensures that they are strongly
affiliated with a project, providing natural protection for the blockchain as any
attempt by a block validator to attack the network will cause most damage to
themselves.
Decentralization is also expected to be much higher, as no expensive mining
equipment is required to validate blocks. The LOC supply is always under full
ownership (every LOC is owned by someone) and every owner has an economic
incentive to create a node since it’s free to do so. If someone is holding LOC, there is
no reason to not stake them for additional income.
Fixed block rewards will be depleted after five years, thus removing artificial,
non-sustainable incentives. After five years, the transactional economy generated
by LockTrip and other projects on the LockTrip Blockchain will be a sufficient
incentive for stakers.

5.3. Supporting Level 2 Nodes
We plan to create two types of nodes for our blockchain infrastructure. Both will be
supported by a one-click installer. Level 1 nodes will be standard nodes/wallets

www.locktrip.com

23

which contain all the blocks, perform staking, and processes all on-chain
information.
Level 2 nodes will contain an additional append-only database and a distributed
messaging layer. They will form a small ecosystem of DAPPs, which interconnect
and support the infrastructure to take advantage of faster information exchange.
Obvious use cases are travel applications: interconnected travel DAPPs can share
inventory data. When a traveller performs a search in one DAPP, it can query all
other DAPPs and retrieve their offers in an effective manner.

5.4. Overcoming the Gas Issue
For LOC itself, the issue is solved quite easily as it will become the native coin of the
LockTrip Blockchain, and no secondary currency will be needed to pay for gas.
For tokens, we will offer a range of smart contracts and turnkey technologies to
remove the requirement to hold LOC to pay for gas. Essentially, application
developers will be able to utilize these smart contracts to send a micro amount of
LOC to the user in advance of the token payment. When the token payment occurs,
it will contain a little extra to cover the cost of the LOC that was sent in advance.
The end result will be two transactions instead of one, but a much more
user-friendly experience.

www.locktrip.com

24

In addition to those smart contracts, we will be offering solutions for API
connectivity with exchanges so that DAPPs can initiate business operations
involving automatic conversions through their website and mobile applications.

5.5. Adopting the UTXO Model
The UTXO Model of accounting allows each wallet to have multiple wallet
addresses, which can each sign unique transactions simultaneously. Since it’s
possible to process multiple UTXOs at the same time, it enables parallel transactions
and encourages scalability innovation. As a result, completely new opportunities
open up and it can be profited from a new level of flexibility.
Businesses can also scale without having to deal with infrastructure bottlenecks.

5.6. Creating a Truly Shared Economy
The PoS consensus mechanism will allow LockTrip’s transactional economy to be
shared in a much fairer manner. First of all, there will be no miners who are
indifferent to the project. Instead, there will only be LOC-staking (and thus
LOC-owning) block validators. This means that 100% of the transaction fees paid to
the network are going back to actual network participants.
In addition, projects building on the LockTrip Blockchain will also be rewarded for
their work.
We have designed the first truly shared blockchain, where 50% of the transaction
fees generated by a token will be reimbursed to the smart contract of the same
token. This is a unique feature that allows projects, to profit from the transactional
economy they are creating through their product or service.

Example:
If CryptoKitties generates 10,000 transactions per day, yielding $0.1 per
transaction, this means they create a transactional economy worth $1,000 per day
for Ethereum miners.
The LockTrip Blockchain will instead re-distribute 50% of the generated fees to the
wallet of the ERC20 smart contract associated with those transactions (in our
example the wallet of CryptoKitties). The remaining 50% will be distributed to the

www.locktrip.com

25

stakers/investors of the LockTrip Blockchain. This means the blockchain will be
sharing the transactional economy with its key players: on one side the applications
that grow the transactions and adoption, and on the other side, the stakers who
support the node infrastructure and provide the consensus.

www.locktrip.com

26

6. Who Benefits From the LockTrip
Project? Everyone.
6.1. Travellers
Travellers benefit financially from our marketplace, as they can
book hotels, homes, flights and soon other travel-related
services without being forced to pay commissions. They also
benefit in terms of time spent searching thanks to LockTrip’s
one-stop-shop setup, where they will be able to book all their
travel-related services without switching between booking
sites, and by knowing that they will always be getting excellent
prices.
In addition, travellers are fully protected from fraud, since the booking smart
contract acts as an escrow account. This provides customers the option to initiate a
dispute if the service provider has not fulfilled its promise (for example not providing
a room).

6.2. Businesses
For businesses, travel costs can make up a significant portion of
their total expenditure. For large companies in particular, cutting
down on these costs can result in huge savings. LockTrip will
offer businesses professional invoicing through corporate
accounts. They will also be able to deposit funds via bank wire.
As a result, switching to LockTrip will be a no-brainer for
businesses of all shapes and sizes.

6.3. Hotels/Renters
Hotels, home renters, airlines and similar business owners also
profit from the 0% commission environment. Currently LockTrip
provides on average 20% savings on rooms. Providers can
either pass on those savings to customers and thus generate

www.locktrip.com

27

more bookings without compromising their profits, or they can increase their profits
by 20% without affecting the cost for travellers. The extra revenue can be used to
provide a higher quality service, instead of surrendering this money to middlemen.
By signing up to LockTrip, business owners can also get rid of the endless
negotiating marathons they have to undergo periodically. The distributed database
will become a central access point for all potential resellers, giving back the power
to business owners.
As we do not charge any commissions, listing on our marketplace will always mean
free exposure for any business.

6.4. Traditional Travel Agencies
Traditional travel agencies will also benefit significantly. We will
offer them completely free inventory that integrates seamlessly
into their current business models. Acquiring a large inventory
is a key strategy for all travel agencies. Doing so without paying
any up-front fees and at 0% commission is the best thing a
travel agency could wish for.
New travel agencies will also be able to scale much quicker by utilizing LockTrip’s
freely available inventory.

6.5. LOC holders
LOC holders enjoy 0% commission access to worldwide travel
services offered on the LockTrip Marketplace, as well as other
marketplaces connected to the distributed database. They also
avoid fees arising from third-party payment processors.
In addition, holders can use their LOC to become block
validators (by staking) on the LockTrip Blockchain. The staking
process is very simple, and generates a constant passive reward stream from
LockTrip network activity around the globe.
LOC holders may also benefit from the central role they play in the LockTrip
ecosystem and its economy. (more info in section 10).

www.locktrip.com

28

6.6. Projects Using the LockTrip Blockchain
Projects that decide to use the LockTrip Blockchain will
immediately profit from the reimbursement feature described in
section 5.6. Depending on the network activity they generate
through their token, this additional revenue stream can become
quite significant, opening up new possibilities for their
businesses.
Due to the predictable transaction fees and the improved transaction capacity of the
LockTrip Blockchain, projects are free to implement more sophisticated smart
contracts to support their products.
We will ensure that projects on the LockTrip blockchain get optimum chances for
growth and partnerships. Advisory and assistance services can also be discussed on
an individual basis.
Many other advantages were outlined in section 5.

7. Marketing Strategy
A business is only as successful as its marketing. For LockTrip, each element must
be handled differently and the marketing strategy must be optimized for each target
audience and use case, which differ significantly.
Let’s examine each element individually. Please note: these are just the strategies
we can currently share. Many more are being withheld from the public for the time
being, in order to protect our strategic advantage.

7.1. Marketing of the Marketplace
Word of Mouth
Target Audience:

Friends & Family of existing users

Quality of marketing:

Very high

www.locktrip.com

29

Impact:

High, but takes time

Cost:

Negligible

The fundamental marketing force of every disruptive project is “word of mouth”
marketing. The goal of this type of marketing is to make sure customers will
recommend and talk about the service or product as much as possible. While this
might seem trivial, it is the most important driving force and has proven itself
repeatedly across all types of industries. For us, it is thus of key importance to treat
this as a core marketing strategy, rather than viewing it as a natural side effect that
“just happens”. Some examples of highly successful companies using word of
mouth marketing as their primary driving force are Red Bull, Tesla or Starbucks.

Our strategy is to:
● ensure the marketplace offers a top-quality user experience for all (​ great
usability)
● educate customers about the deceptive practices present in the industry and
our mission to combat them ​(important mission)
● beat the prices of conventional booking sites by a significant margin​ (high
value)
● reward people for spreading the word ​(incentivizer)

Affiliate Marketing
Target Audience:

Mass audience

Quality of marketing:

Medium - high

Impact:

Very high, relatively quick

Cost:

1% of bookings generated by referrals

We will be using affiliate marketing as a complementary and similarly effective
strategy to word of mouth. One of the most important criteria for an affiliate is the
size of the reward and the ease of converting potential customers. This is why
affiliate marketing is ideal for us. Our competitive prices are basically selling
themselves, which makes it possible for affiliates to achieve high conversion rates
while maintaining low acquisition costs - a strong selling factor for super-affiliates.

www.locktrip.com

30

Refer once, earn forever!
Unlike most affiliate campaigns out there, we do not only reward a single booking,
but rather every booking the referral places. This lifetime referral income allows
affiliates to build up their own ever-growing network, which will generate a
continuous revenue stream even after ceasing affiliate activities.
You can calculate your predicted affiliate income using our handy ​affiliate
calculator​.
The same lifetime benefit will apply to “super affiliates”, who choose to focus on
setting up affiliate networks and educating their teams on how to improve
conversion rates, and how to develop a solid strategy to maximize their income.
We will put great effort into helping affiliates reach their full potential, by offering
the most powerful software tools and the highest quality content available.
All of our content is free to use for affiliate purposes!

Approaching Businesses
Target Audience:

Businesses and business travellers

Quality of marketing:

Top quality, direct engagement

Impact:

Very high, resulting in reliable booking volumes

Cost:

Low

So far, we have identified business travellers as one of the most interested user
bases. They travel frequently and thus possess significant travel budgets every year.
Being able to save 20% on their expenses is a game changer for them. This is why
we plan to approach businesses individually to make them aware of our services,
show them the savings they can realize, and educate them on how we are able to
offer significant savings compared to conventional travel agencies.
This strategy will result in the creation of corporate accounts, including professional
invoicing services as well as other useful tools.

www.locktrip.com

31

A framework for this marketing strategy is already being developed. More will be
shared as we progress.

Search Engine Optimization (SEO)
Target Audience:

Travellers searching online / Mass audience

Quality of marketing:

Medium

Impact:

Medium - high, reliable

Cost:

Negligible

SEO is one of LockTrip’s core competences. Both our CEO Nikola Alexandrov and
Head of Business Development Nevena Petrova are experts in this area and know
how to effectively drive traffic.
SEO techniques are generally undervalued because they are seen as passive.
However, there are millions of people searching for travel-related keywords on a
daily basis. Getting the attention of even a small share of them will result in a very
strong and continuous driving force.

The LockTrip Blockchain
Target Audience:

Blockchain community

Quality of marketing:

Medium

Impact:

Unpredictable

Cost:

Negligible

In addition to providing a powerful technological infrastructure, the LockTrip
Blockchain will also be a strong marketing element for our marketplace. Imagine if
Ethereum had also created a travel marketplace on top of their blockchain. Millions
of cryptocurrency users would be made aware of it and likely spend a few minutes
checking it out.
The same will apply for LockTrip. Any marketing activity conducted by the projects
using our blockchain will also benefit us indirectly. Imagine 10 projects building up
communities of 10,000 people each. That makes 100,000 people who will have
heard about LOC at least once.

www.locktrip.com

32

We have described the marketing effect our blockchain will have on the
marketplace in greater detail ​here​. (​ Strongly recommended reading)

7.2. Marketing of the Distributed Database
The marketing of the distributed database has two stages.
At the beginning of the first stage, the total number of connected inventory will be
low. We will approach individual hotels, home owners and small marketplaces at
the company level. There is also the possibility to offer incentives for referring
inventory. People who have an extensive network of inventory owners can thus
leverage their position to become a LockTrip ambassador. For the rental homes in
particular, there are people with huge networks that can be leveraged.
Travel conferences also offer great opportunities to connect to travel agencies and
hotel chains. Note that a travel agency or inventory distributor connecting to our
database will also share its own inventory and thus contribute to the total network
value.
With a growing amount of inventory, the network effect will start kicking in and our
strategy will shift to more sustainable methods. At that time we will start using our
leverage and focus on strictly economic advantages presented by the distributed
database on a broader scale.

Example of the network effect:
Marketplace A has 5,000 hotels with competitive pricing in the region of Asia
Marketplace B has 3,000 hotels with a diverse availability in Germany
Marketplace C has 7,000 hotels around the globe with average pricing
If all three marketplaces connect to our distributed database, they will get a
combined inventory of 15,000 hotels (assuming none are overlapping) which will be
instantly accessible by all of them at the same time.

www.locktrip.com

33

In the case of overlapping inventory, marketplaces can simply choose the cheaper
offer. For example, marketplace C can benefit from the competitive pricing of
marketplace A for the region of Asia. Or it can improve its offering in Germany
through the inventory of marketplace B. At the same time, marketplace B can
expand beyond Germany and create another niche market in an Asian country.
The more inventory the distributed database hosts, the more attractive it becomes
for other marketplaces and hotels, and the more its value rises. It represents one of
the most efficient examples of a network effect, as there is no cost to anyone, while
all participants benefit.
Although individual marketplaces may lose some of their competitive advantages to
other marketplaces connected to the network, the whole ecosystem becomes much
more competitive compared to marketplaces that are not part of it.
The overall value of the network will greatly surpasses the sum of the individual
values that were present before. Added value will thus be generated for all. Each
travel agency can now focus on providing additional features to their customers in
order to further differentiate themselves from competitors.

7.3. Marketing of the Blockchain
The marketing of the blockchain to projects that could build their token on it has its
own very specific requirements. The unique selling points outlined in section 5 will
represent a strong base, which will require very clear and structured

www.locktrip.com

34

communication. On top of that, we can incentivize projects to move to our
blockchain by offering added value, such as:
● Providing advisory services
● Helping projects to launch their ICO professionally
● Enhancing their token economy through architectural improvements
● Providing liquidity solutions
● Providing technological support such as access to our crypto-to-fiat
conversion mechanism
For projects that have already launched their token on top of the Ethereum
blockchain, migrating to the LockTrip Blockchain will be seamless due to it
supporting the Ethereum Virtual Machine. Migrated projects will have immediate
access to a blockchain explorer and a robust node infrastructure with true
censorship resistance, in addition to all the LockTrip-specific selling points of the
blockchain.
In particular, the forwarding of 50% of transaction fees to projects will be a unique
and powerful marketing tool for bringing established DAPPs to the LockTrip
blockchain, as they will be able to immediately increase their financial returns
without changing their business model. For this reason, targeting projects with large
transactional economies will play an important role in the marketing of our
blockchain .
Projects can migrate their tokens and use the extra income to effectively boost their
financials, or to reap as profits. A win-win situation for everyone.

8. Market Size of the Travel Industry
The online travel industry is made up of multiple sub-industries such as hotel, home
and flight bookings. In 2018, a total of $700 billion worth of bookings were placed
through the internet. Not only that, but the industry is growing at a rapid pace. For
the past few years, it has experienced annual growth rates of above 10%, and has
thus vastly outperformed the global economy.

www.locktrip.com

35

The reason for this growth comes from multiple factors. One major factor is that
economically weaker but prospering countries are quickly joining the travel domain,
contributing significantly to the booming industry. As their purchasing power is
projected to continue growing, it can be concluded that the travel industry will also
continue to grow.

Digital travel sales worldwide from 2014 to 2020 (in billion U.S.
dollars)

9. Market Size of the Blockchain
Industry
There are currently more than 2,100 coins and tokens with their own communities,
and new projects are popping up on a daily basis. During the years 2017 and 2018,
the crypto industry experienced unprecedented growth in terms of projects,
investors, users and developers.
While the hype has since died down significantly, projects are still being launched at
a high frequency, and their quality is slowly improving due to investors becoming
more cautious and demanding higher standards for their money.

www.locktrip.com

36

At the time of writing, the total market cap of the cryptocurrency industry is sitting
well above $100 billion, with most projects still being in the early stages of
development. The utility of coins and tokens is expected to increase sharply in the
coming months and years, thus the market is also expected to rise again. However,
before this happens, we expect that most projects will fade away, with mainly high
quality businesses innovative product offerings remaining.
Mass adoption will not happen overnight, and the cryptocurrency market cap may
decline further before it happens.. But one thing is sure by now: blockchain
technology is here to stay.

10. The LOC economy
The LOC token drives the entire LockTrip ecosystem. Without it, all of the features
and plans described in this whitepaper would not be possible. In this section, we
explain how the demand for LOC is created by its various utility cases.

10.1 LOC demand from our Marketplace
A strong economy that ensures the value of LOC requires two characteristics: high
demand and low velocity.

1) Generation of constant demand
Our Marketplace is surely one of the most important elements of LockTrip and is the
fundamental driver of the LOC economy. Any booking on the marketplace
automatically generates demand for LOC, regardless of whether it is paid for with
LOC, other cryptocurrencies or with a credit card (more info in the box below).
Since travel related bookings are generally high volume transactions, this can
quickly create a solid base of utility demand.

Why is the payment method irrelevant?
LockTrip supports multiple payment methods in order to provide
accessibility for everyone. However, LOC must be used to interact with
the smart contracts on the blockchain. We have developed an advanced

www.locktrip.com

37

conversion mechanism, consisting of 14 unique elements, which
automatically converts any payment into LOC as a background process.
Users can thus take advantage of LockTrip’s cheaper prices without
having to use or even know about blockchain technology.

Transactions only generate demand at the particular moment of execution. So how
does this create net demand for LOC? This is where LOC velocity comes into play.

2) Reduction of LOC velocity
Buying and selling LOC at the same time does not create any measurable demand.
But what if an hour passes between the buying and the selling? What if one day
passes? Or a week?
The key element of the LOC economy is the lockup period of LOC. Whenever a
booking is made, the payment currency is automatically converted into LOC and
stored in the booking smart contract. The LOC remains there, in escrow, until the
customer completes the booking (e.g. checks out from a hotel).
This lockup function reduces the circulating supply of LOC for the period between
booking and checkout. The higher the booking rate, the more LOC are escrowed in
the smart contract at a given time, and the higher the demand on LOC will become.

Booking rate vs. cumulative bookings
It is important to understand that LOC demand is not correlated to the
cumulative booking amount. Instead, the booking rate is the determining
factor. A more detailed explanation can be found​ ​in this article​.

10.2. LOC demand from Premium Features
All premium features on our marketplace will be paid for in LOC (see section 2.2).
While users will generate constant demand on LOC through bookings, hotels and
other service providers will also likely keep LOC reserves in order to pay for

www.locktrip.com

38

premium features such as increased visibility or volatility protection. More
information on LockTrip’s premium features can be found ​here​.

10.3. LOC demand from the Distributed Database
It’s important to understand that our marketplace is only one instance of a booking
service being built using the LockTrip distributed database. There can be an
unlimited amount of marketplaces connected to it, all simultaneously profiting from
the inventory for free.
LOC demand will exist regardless of whether the booking was placed on our own
marketplace, or on another marketplace connected to the distributed database. This
is because they all need to utilize our booking smart contracts, which only accept
LOC.

10.4. LOC Demand from Staking
The launch of our proprietary blockchain has created another fundamental driver for
demand. The ability to receive rewards for staking LOC greatly incentivizes holders
to keep on holding. It also attracts a new audience who specialize in staking to make
a living.
The nature of staking encourages people to hold more of the staked cryptocurrency.
Staking more LOC will provide you with a greater income, while it compels others to
increase their stake to maintain their total share.
The larger the transactional economy, the higher the staking incentives. Projects
unrelated to travel will also contribute by increasing staking incentives through
growing LOC’s transactional economy.

10.5. LOC Demand from Projects on the LockTrip
Blockchain
As mentioned above, projects using the LockTrip Blockchain will also create LOC
demand in various ways. These include:
● ICOs using LOC as the payment currency
● LOC being used as gas for token transactions

www.locktrip.com

39

● LOC/token trading pairs requiring LOC for liquidity

10.6. Burning
With the introduction of the burning mechanism, we have added a new element
that will steadily decrease the circulating supply of LOC. Burning refers to the act of
permanently removing coins or tokens from circulation. There will be two LOC
burning mechanisms.

1) Burning a portion of staking rewards
The first burning mechanism is at the protocol level. It will automatically burn a
certain amount of staking rewards across the network. If for example a 5% burn
rate is agreed upon, then 5% of all staking rewards will be removed permanently
from circulation (i.e. not forwarded to stakers). The burning rate will be voted on
regularly by LOC holders, and thus adapt to the needs of the network, as well as the
stakers.

2) Burning through voting
The voting mechanism mentioned above (and in section 5.1) brings us to the second
burning mechanism. In the case of a voting event, separate smart contracts will be
set up representing the different voting options (for example a “yes” and a “no”
smart contract). In order to place their vote, holders send LOC to the option (smart
contract) they prefer. The smart contract holding the most LOC at the end of the
voting period will represent the result, and the blockchain setting that was voted on
will be changed accordingly. All LOC used during the voting will be burned.

The following blockchain settings will be subject to voting:
● Burning rate at protocol level
● Transaction fees (fixed in fiat)
● Block size (and thus transaction capacity)
● Reimbursement rate to token projects
● Selection of new voting administrators (who can initiate votes)

www.locktrip.com

40

11. Why LockTrip Will Succeed
11.1. Partnership with SoftUni
LockTrip is uniquely positioned to acquire highly talented developers. We are in
close partnership with SoftUni, the leading University in Bulgaria when it comes to
IT and digital marketing and design. As a result, we have access to their most
talented developers and are able to keep up to date with the latest innovations.
We are also utilizing the ​Work & Share​ coworking space located next to the
SoftUni, which is ideal for innovative and fast growing software companies.

11.2. Demonstrated Cost Savings
We have already demonstrated the most critical metric of our project: the
competitive prices in our marketplace.
We have managed to fulfill our promise and prove that the inventory on our
marketplace is priced extremely competitively. This alone has the potential to
disrupt the whole travel industry. Our in-house price comparison analysis revealed
savings ranging up to 50%, and an average of 20%. We have also gathered many
testimonials from our users, confirming our findings.
+ Price comparison analysis (to be added in next version)
+ Testimonials (video to be added in next version)

11.3. Live products
We are already at an advanced stage of development and can showcase a variety of
products.
-

Our marketplace already consists of three sections demonstrating how far
we have come in our mission to build a one-stop-shop travel marketplace.
Users can now access hotels, homes and flights on LockTrip, removing the
need to search elsewhere. All with the peace of mind that they are getting
excellent prices, without commissions or hidden fees.

www.locktrip.com

41

In the hotels section, there are already more than 400,000 hotels available for
booking. This represents the vast majority of the bed capacity around the
world.
The flights section supports more than 900 regular airlines and 350 low cost
carriers. This offers excellent coverage around the world, including the largest
airlines with the highest number of destinations.
-

Our Smart Contract has already demonstrated its purpose. Every booking
placed through our marketplace can be validated through it publicly (without
disclosing any personal information). This ensures full transparency and
security, while enabling dispute resolution, should the service provider not
fulfill their obligations.

-

The LockTrip Blockchain testnet is up and running. The blockchain’s
functionality can be fully tested, demonstrating the mechanisms that provide
solutions for the problems and limitations of conventional blockchains.
Mainnet is scheduled for Q2 2019.

11.4. Very strong community
We have built up a strong community of long-term project supporters and travelers,
as well as hotel and property owners. They not only provide us with a stream of
valuable feedback, but are also the first LockTrip users, providing a powerful
marketing force through their testimonials and commitment.

11.5. Funding Secured for Three Years
The LockTrip team is financially secured until early 2022, without depending on its
cryptocurrency reserves (LOC, ETH and other diversified reserves) or revenue
generated from premium features. Thus project execution is not at risk due to the
volatility of the cryptocurrency market. It also means that we can use initial revenue
generated through premium features for marketing activities, instead of consuming
it to cover base costs.

www.locktrip.com

42

11.6. Advanced Blockchain Infrastructure
As outlined in section 4, current blockchain solutions lack the key characteristics
required to run a successful business. Through utilizing the LockTrip Blockchain, we
are uniquely positioned to disrupt the travel industry without being disadvantaged
by underdeveloped technology.
In addition, the LockTrip Blockchain brings an innovative package to the crypto
industry, with the potential to attract a number of successful businesses, currently
relying on less advanced blockchain solutions, to the LockTrip ecosystem.

11.7 Targeting Mass Adoption
There is one major problem in the cryptocurrency industry. Most projects focus too
heavily on the cryptocurrency community, while neglecting the rest of the world’s
population. This remains one of the biggest weaknesses of the space, as projects
continue to waste resources competing with each other for a bigger share of the
cryptocurrency economy, instead of actually working to growing it. We at LockTrip
are also keeping the cryptocurrency community in mind, but the general population
is our primary target.
This is why we have spent endless hours developing our own in-house fiat-LOC
conversion mechanism. It opens up the benefits of blockchain technology to the
general population without requiring people to learn about it. In fact, our
marketplace is designed so that most will not even realize they are benefiting from
the LOC ecosystem, distributed database or the LockTrip Blockchain. For them, it
will simply be a top quality marketplace that offers highly attractive prices.

11.8. Master Plan
We have developed a sound strategy for building up our project in the fastest, most
reliable way possible.

Scaling hotels & flights first
Even though we launched our homes section first, we prioritized the hotels and
flights sections for scaling and development. This is because it allows us to take
advantage of the established distributor networks and onboard inventory at a rapid
pace through strategic partnerships.

www.locktrip.com

43

But aren’t they the intermediaries LockTrip wants to eliminate?
Yes. However distributor fees only make up 3-5% of commissions, while booking
sites take around 20%. Our strategy thus allows us to skip forward years of
business development by initially compromising on 3-5% in commissions, while still
being able to offer our users savings of 20% on average.
The alternative would have been to spend years onboarding hotels and homes one
by one, without any incentive for them to join due to a lack of bookings, which itself
would have been due to a lack of inventory. So it is a chicken and egg problem,
which we bypassed through the compromise described above.

As a result, the following strategy emerged:
1. Onboard global hotel inventory in a short amount of time, and cut out 20% in
booking site commissions, while paying 3-5% to distributors
2. Use the large inventory coupled with very competitive prices to attract
customers and grow the booking rate
3. Use the booking rate as an incentive to encourage hotels to sign up directly,
thus bypassing distributors by growing our distributed database
4. Reduce prices by an additional 3-5% through eliminating distributors
5. Take advantage of the network effect to scale the distributed database

www.locktrip.com

44

