The USDJ ​Stablecoin System
White Paper

https://just.network

By the JUST ​Team

I. About USDJ Stablecoin
II. USDJ Stablecoin System
III. Use Collateralized Debt Positions (CDPs) to Generate USDJ
1. Obtaining the collateral assets
2. Creating CDPs to deposit collateral assets
3. Generating USDJ through CDPs
4. Redeeming the collateral
IV. Price Stability Mechanism
V. Global Settlement Mechanism
1. Global Settlement is activated
2. Global Settlement claims are processed
3. USDJ and CDP holders claim their collateral
VI. Risk Management
1. Modification of Sensitivity Parameter
2. Modification of Target Rate
3. Choosing a set of trusted Oracles
4. Modification of Price Feed Sensitivity
5. Choosing a set of global setters
6. Setting up parameters for risk-control
1). Debt ceiling
2). Liquidation ratio
3). Stability fee
4). Penalty ratio
VII. JUST System Governance
1. Single action proposal contract
2. Delegating Proposal Contracts
VIII. Resources

1

I. ​About USDJ ​Stablecoin

TRON network offers varieties of quality assets, but most of them are not viable for everyday
use because of their high volatility.
USDJ is a new currency generated through decentralized smart contracts on the TRON
network. Anyone can pledge ​TRX ​as collateral to generate ​USDJ​. ​USDJ enters into free
circulation as any other cryptocurrency does once generated. It is pegged to the US dollar
through Collateralized Debt Positions (​CDPs​), and also has autonomous feedback mechanisms.
USDJ Stablecoin is a USD-pegged cryptocurrency backed by collateral assets. We believe that
USDJ​ will become an integral part of the TRON ​DeFi​ ecosystem.

II. ​USDJ​ Stablecoin System

Figure 1. Core Mechanism of the ​JUST​ System

2

USDJ mortgage lending system and decentralized autonomous incentive mechanism are the
core parts of JUST. Please find the details below.

III. Use Collateralized Debt Positions (​CDPs​) to
Generate ​USDJ
USDJ​ is generated through depositing collateral assets into ​CDP​. Here are the steps:

1​. Obtaining the collateral assets
Exchange the ​TRX to be pledged for ​PTRX​, ​which is the only collateral assets accepted by the
system for the moment.

2​. Creating ​CDP​s to deposit collateral assets
Send a transaction to ​JUST to create a ​CDP​, then send another transaction to deposit ​PTRX​,
the collateral asset, into the ​CDP​ to generate ​USDJ​.

3​. Generating ​USDJ​ through ​CDPs
The CDP holder sends a transaction to specify the amount of ​USDJ generated in the ​CDP​.
Meanwhile, the same amount of debt will be created, and the collateral asset is locked up and
not available for redemption until the debt is repaid.

4​. Redeeming the collateral
To redeem the collateral, the debt must be repaid with ​USDJ along with a stability fee paid with
JUST platform token, ​JST​. Finally, ​CDP holders can send a transaction to ​JUST to retrieve all
collateral assets.
If a price slump of the collateral makes it at risk of being unable to cover the debt, the ​CDP
liquidation will be triggered to auction the collateral for repayment. Any remaining value net of
the debt and the penalty fee will be kept in the ​CDP​ for withdrawal.

3

IV. Price Stability Mechanism
The starting Target Price of USDJ is pegged at ​1.0 to the US dollar. In the ​JUST system, ​USDJ
Target Price serves two main functions​:
1​. To calculate the debt-to-collateral ratio of the CDP.
2​. To determine the value of collateral assets that ​USDJ holders will receive upon Global
Settlement.
In the event of market instability, a Target​ ​Rate​ ​Feedback​ ​Mechanism​ ​(TRFM) will be triggered
to maintain the same denomination of ​USDJ​. The​ ​Target​ ​Rate​ ​Feedback​ ​Mechanism​ is a
process in which the ​USDJ Stablecoin System helps to adjust the Target Rate, so as to mobilize
market forces to maintain the stability of ​USDJ​ price.
The Target Rate determines the change of the Target Price, which incentivizes people to hold
USDJ when the value is positive and lend ​USDJ when it's negative. Such a feedback
mechanism maintains the market price of ​USDJ around the Target Price, thus dampening the
price volatility of ​USDJ​ and injecting liquidity during demand shocks.
Under the Target​ ​Rate​ ​Feedback​ ​Mechanism, once the market price of ​USDJ falls below the
Target Price, the Target Rate will increase, making it more expensive to generate ​USDJ with
CDPs​. In the meantime, an increased Target Rate will drive up the capital gains of holding
USDJ​, thus increasing the demand for ​USDJ​. In this way, the reduced supply and increased
demand will push up the market price of ​USDJ​ back towards its Target Price.
Likewise, when the market price of ​USDJ rises above the Target Price, the same mechanism
takes effect by decreasing the Target Rate, and thus driving down the market price back
towards the Target Price.

V. Global Settlement Mechanism
When the ​USDJ price that the system receives from ​Oracles deviates drastically from the US
Dollar during a system attack or malicious control which causes intolerable risks within the
system, global settlers designated by ​JST holders can trigger the Global Settlement Mechanism
that is carried out in the following steps:

4

1​. Global Settlement is activated
After Global Settlement is activated, ​CDPs can no longer be created or adjusted and the Price
Feed will be frozen at a certain value to process all users' claims.

2​. Global Settlement claims are processed
Meanwhile, ​Keepers in the ​JUST system will auction the debt and collateral assets based on the
fixed Price Feed in a decentralized way in order to process corresponding claims of all ​USDJ
and CDP holders.

3​. ​USDJ​ and CDP holders claim their collateral
After Keepers process all Global Settlement claims, each ​USDJ and ​CDP holder can submit a
claim request on ​JUST to directly exchange their ​USDJ or CDPs for a fixed amount of ​TRX
based on the Target Price of ​USDJ​. No time limit is set as for when users can take this step.

VI. Risk Management
To effectively manage and control potential risks, ​USDJ ​stablecoin system is armed with a
comprehensive risk-management system. On one hand​, JST holders elect key decision makers
through their votes to regulate risks across the system. On the other hand​, JST ​holders may
also vote with ​JST​ to participate in setting up and modifying the risk parameters.
Risk management consists of the following components:

1​. Modification of Sensitivity Parameter
Modify the sensitivity of the Target Rate Feedback Mechanism (TRFM).

2.​ Modification of Target Rate
Administrators may change Target Rate. In real practice​, when JST holders want to peg the
price of ​USDJ to the current Target Price, they may set Sensitivity Parameter and ​Target ​Rate
at zero to achieve the goal.

5

3.​ Choosing a set of trusted Oracles
JUST platform obtains the internal price of collateral and the market price of USDJ through
decentralized Oracles. JST holders can control the number of Oracle nodes and designate
specific nodes as trusted Oracles. The system operates safely as long as over half of the
Oracles function properly.

4. ​Modification of Price Feed Sensitivity
Changes in Price Feed Sensitivity affects the system's internal prices to a certain extent.

5.​ Choosing a set of global setters
Global setter is a crucial mechanism for JUST platform to survive attacks against the Oracles
and the governance steps. The mechanism chooses a set of global setters and determines how
many global setters are needed to activate a global settlement.

6. Setting up ​parameters for risk-control
To maintain the stability of the price of USDJ, the JUST system sets up multiple parameters for
risk-control to regulate the Collateralized Debt Positions, all of which will be put up for vote and
determined by JST holders.

1). Debt ceiling
Debt ceiling is the maximum ​amount of debt that can be created by CDP. Once the debt ceiling
is reached, it becomes impossible for CDP to create new USDJ unless existing CDPs are
closed.

2). Liquidation ratio
Liquidation ratio is a ratio of the collateral-to-debt when a CDP ​is liquidated. A low liquidation
ratio means JST voters expect low price volatility of the collateral, while a high liquidation ratio
means high volatility is expected.

6

3).​ Stability fee
A stability fee is the ​extra fee ​charged on users when they pay back the debt after borrowing
USDJ from CDPs. The stability fee is priced by USDJ and repaid only in JST. Once repaid, the
JST will be burned and removed from the supply. The price of stability fee regulates the
incentive of borrowing, and therefore controls the risk from the supply-and-demand end.

4). ​Penalty ratio

Penalty ratio is used to determine the maximum amount of ​USDJ bought and destroyed in
liquidation auctions. The remaining collateral assets after the CDP liquidation will be refunded to
the CDP holders before the liquidation. Penalty ratio is used to improve the efficiency of the
liquidation mechanism, and the liquidation penalty will be used to buy and burn PTRX,
benefitting the PTRX to TRX ratio.

VII. ​JUST ​System Governance
JUST ​system governance relies mainly on JST ​holders. While JST ​holders earn revenue from
the stability fees of USDJ​, they are also responsible for the governance of the JUST ​system,
which is done through selecting valid proposals ​ by JST ​voters.
Each JST ​holder ​can vote and select the contract he/she supports among all the smart
contracts that modify the system parameters. The contract with the highest number of votes
becomes a valid proposal and has the system permit to modify variables of JUST ​internal
system governance as per the established logic. Valid contract proposals can be in two forms:

1​. Single action proposal contract
Single action proposal contracts are proposals that can only be executed after gaining the root
access, and after execution immediately applies its changes to the variables of internal system
governance. The single action proposal will delete itself and become invalid. It’s easy to use but
not flexible. This type of proposal will be adopted in the early stage of the system.

2​. Delegating Proposal Contracts
Delegating Proposal Contracts are proposals that continuously utilize their root access through
second layer governance logic. The second layer governance logic can be relatively simple,

7

such as defining a protocol for holding a weekly vote on updated risk parameters. It can also
implement more advanced logic, such as restrictions on the magnitude of governance actions
within defined time periods, or even deleting permissions of its third layer Delegating Proposal
Contracts with restrictions.
There is no special requirement for proposal initiation. Any TRON account can submit
suggestions for improving the JUST ​system by deploying valid smart contracts. ​JST ​holders can
use their JST tokens to cast approval votes for one or multiple proposals that they want to select
as the valid proposal. This mechanism ensures that JST ​holders fulfill their obligation of
governance in a fair and just manner, and that suggestions carried in these valid proposals are
safely deployed in the​ JUST ​system.
We believe that under successful community governance, USDJ will bring into full play its
advantages as a stablecoin and be widely applied across the TRON network.

VIII. Resources
JUST Official Website:​ ​www.just.network
Product Website: ​just.tronscan.org

8

