PRiVCY WHITE PAPER
Version 1.0

OWN YOUR PRIVACY
Prepared by: PRiVCY Team (August 2018)
PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

1

ABSTRACT

Traditional financial authorities such as Banks and Governments have always failed when it comes
to the trust put in them by masses. In 2008, Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy, before which
markets were performing well and global economies were booming, until one day suddenly Lehman Brothers fell, the financial system froze, and the world economy almost collapsed. Bitcoin
despite claiming to have revolutionized the concept of peer to peer payment by eliminating the
role of the intermediary from transactional activities still offers a transparent ledger, and thus, depriving users from the much-needed privacy. It is also evident that due to the huge load and too
many transactions happening at a time, Bitcoin has been showing many signs of weakness such
as: Sluggishness or more than usual time for transactions (even up to days in some cases), Higher
Transaction Fee, Highly dependency on Pool System and Large Organizational Miners.
Considering the huge potential crypto market has, and to facilitate the community with a cryptocurrency that is fully encrypted, private and efficient in the truest sense, our team of highly experience
fintech specialists have carried out an extensive research and developed a modern age cryptocurrency called PRiVCY Coin. This white paper gives a detailed description of our research and planning. It also aims to demonstrate the current status and future plans of PRiVCY Coin ecosystem, its
associated products and solutions such as PRiVCY E-Commerce Plugins, PRiVCY Messenger—A truly decentralized, encrypted and anonymous messenger, and PRiVCY Coin—the payment gateway
within PRiVCY Coin ecosystem. It aims to inform our readers how we are using our teams’ expertise
to provide decentralized financial services with full privacy at lower costs, minimal fee with higher
speed, efficiency, and higher returns.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

2

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1

Abstract

p. 2

2

Disclaimer

p. 5

2.1

Restrictions on distribution and dissemination

2.2

Risks and uncertainties

3

Background

4

Problem statement

p. 10

5

Solution PRiVCY Coin

p. 11

6

Introduction to PRiVCY Coin

p. 12

7

Features of PRiVCY Coin

p. 13

8

7.1

Privacy

7.2

Faster Transaction Confirmation Time

7.3

Decentralized Governance

7.4

Enhanced Security

7.5

Easy Transactions

7.6

Enormous Potential

7.7

User Friendly and dedicated wallet

7.8

Portable

7.9

Utility and Acceptability

Technical Architecture
8.1

PROOF-OF-WORK

8.2

Proof-of Stake

8.3

PRiVCY Coin Combining the best of both PoW and PoS

8.4

PRiVCY Coin Incentivized Staking

8.5

PRiVCY Mixing Protocol - Anonymity Enhanced

8.6

PRiVCY Messenger

8.7

PRiVCY Plugins for Ecommerce

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

p. 8

p. 16

3

9

Specifications of the blockchain

p. 23

10

Technical information of PRiVCY Coin

p. 24

11

Marketing Policy

p. 25

11.1

Use Community to Nurture Currency

11.2

Community Building Strategies

11.3

Attracting and convincing merchants

12

Roadmap for PRiVCY Coin

p. 27

13

Funds Distribution

p. 28

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

4

2 DISCLAIMER

PLEASE READ THIS DISCLAIMER SECTION CAREFULLY. IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT OF
THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL,
TAX, OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S).
This document is a whitepaper setting out the current and future developments of the PRiVCY Coin Platform and PRiVCY Coin Ecosystem. This paper is for information purposes only
and is not a statement of future intent. Unless expressly specified otherwise, the products
and innovations set out in this paper are currently under development and are not currently
in deployment. PRiVCY Coin makes no warranties or representations as to the successful development or implementation of such technologies and innovations, or achievement of any
other activities noted in the paper, and disclaims any warranties implied by law or otherwise,
to the extent permitted by law. No person is entitled to rely on the contents of this paper or
any inferences drawn from it, including in relation to any interactions with PRiVCY COIN or the
technologies mentioned in this paper. PRiVCY Coin disclaims all liability for any loss or damage of whatsoever kind (whether foreseeable or not) which may arise from any person acting
on any information and opinions relating to PRiVCY Coin, the PRiVCY Coin Platform or the
PRiVCY Coin Ecosystem contained in this paper or any information which is made available in
connection with any further enquiries, notwithstanding any negligence, default or lack of care.
The information contained in this publication is derived from data obtained from sources
believed by PRiVCY Coin to be reliable and is given in good faith, but no warranties or guarantees, representations are made by PRiVCY COIN with regard to the accuracy, completeness
or suitability of the information presented. It should not be relied upon, and shall not confer
rights or remedies upon, you or any of your employees, creditors, holders of securities or other equity holders or any other person. Any opinions expressed reflect the current judgment
of the authors of this paper and do not necessarily represent the opinion of PRiVCY Coin. The
opinions reflected herein may change without notice and the opinions do not necessarily
correspond to the opinions of PRiVCY Coin.
PRiVCY COIN may amend, modify or update this paper and will notify a reader or recipient
through its social channels and communities thereof in the event that any matter stated
herein, or any opinion, projection, forecast or estimate set forth herein, changes or subsequently becomes inaccurate.
PRiVCY Coin, its founders, directors, employees, contractors and representatives do not have
any responsibility or liability to any person or recipient (whether by reason of negligence,
negligent misstatement or otherwise) arising from any statement, opinion or information,
expressed or implied, arising out of, contained in or derived from or omission from this paper. Neither PRiVCY Coin nor its advisors have independently verified any of the information,
including the forecasts, prospects and projections contained in this paper.

This Whitepaper does not constitute a prospectus or offer document of any sort and is not
intended to constitute an offer of securities or a solicitation for investment in securities in any
jurisdiction. This Whitepaper does not constitute or form part of any opinion on any advice to
PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

5

sell, or any solicitation of any offer by the distributor/vendor of the PRiVCY Coin (the “Distributor”) to purchase any PRiVCY Coin nor shall it or any part of it nor the fact of its presentation
form the basis of, or be relied upon in connection with, any contract or investment decision.
The Distributor will be an affiliate of PRiVCY Coin Platform (“PRiVCY Coin Platform”), and will
deploy all proceeds of sale of the PRiVCY Coin to fund PRiVCY Coin Platform cryptocurrency
project, businesses and operations. No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding
legal commitment in relation to the sale and purchase of the PRiVCY Coin and no cryptocurrency or other form of Payment is to be accepted on the basis of this Whitepaper. Any
agreement as between the Distributor and you as a purchaser, and in relation to any sale and
purchase, of PRiVCY Coin (as referred to in this Whitepaper) is to be governed by only a separate document setting out the terms and conditions (the “T&Cs”) of such agreement. In the
event of any inconsistencies between the T&Cs and this Whitepaper, the former shall prevail.
No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of the information set out in this
Whitepaper. No such action has been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction. The publication, distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper does not imply that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been
complied with. There are risks and uncertainties associated with PRiVCY Coin Platform and/or
the Distributor and their respective businesses and operations, the PRiVCY Coin, the PRiVCY
Coin purchase on associated exchanges and the PRiVCY Coin Wallet (each as referred to in
this Whitepaper).
This Whitepaper, any part thereof and any copy thereof must not be taken or transmitted
to any country where distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper is prohibited or restricted. No part of this Whitepaper is to be reproduced, distributed or disseminated without
including this section and the following sections entitled “Disclaimer of Liability”, “No Representations and Warranties”, “Representations and Warranties By You”, “Cautionary Note On
Forward-Looking Statements”, “Market and Industry Information and No Consent of Other
Persons”, “Terms Used”, “No Advice”, “No Further Information or Update”, “Restrictions On
Distribution and Dissemination”, “No Offer of Securities Or Registration” and “Risks and Uncertainties”.
To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws, regulations and rules, PRiVCY Coin
and/or the Distributor shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential
or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of
revenue, income or profits, and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection with any
acceptance of or reliance on this Whitepaper or any part thereof by you.
PRiVCY Coin and/or the Distributor does not make or purport to make, and hereby disclaims,
any representation, warranty or undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person,
including any representation, warranty or undertaking in relation to the truth, accuracy and
completeness of any of the information set out in this Whitepaper.
No information in this Whitepaper should be considered to be business, legal, financial or
tax advice regarding PRiVCY Coin, the Distributor, the PRiVCY Coin Airdrop and sale on listed
exchanges. You should consult your own legal, financial, tax or other professional adviser regarding PRiVCY Coin and/or the Distributor and their respective businesses and operations,
the PRiVCY Coin, the PRiVCY Coin Sale on exchanges. You should be aware that you may be
required to bear the financial risk of any purchase of PRiVCY Coin for an indefinite period of
time.
2.1 RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION AND DISSEMINATION
The distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper or any part thereof may be prohibited
or restricted by the laws, regulatory requirements and rules of any jurisdiction. In the case
PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

6

where any restriction applies, you are to inform yourself about, and to observe, any restrictions which are applicable to your possession of this Whitepaper or such part thereof (as the
case may be) at your own expense and without liability to PRiVCY Coin Platform and/or the
Distributor. Persons to whom a copy of this Whitepaper has been distributed or disseminated, provided access to or who otherwise have the Whitepaper in their possession shall not
circulate it to any other persons, reproduce or otherwise distribute this Whitepaper or any
information contained herein for any purpose whatsoever nor permit or cause the same to
occur.
2.2 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Prospective purchasers of PRiVCY Coin (as referred to in this Whitepaper) should carefully
consider and evaluate all risks and uncertainties associated with PRiVCY Coin, the Distributor
and their respective businesses and operations, the PRiVCY Coin, the PRiVCY Coin Sale, all
information set out in this Whitepaper and the T&Cs prior to any purchase of PRiVCY Coin. If
any of such risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of PRiVCY Coin and/or the Distributor could be
materially and adversely affected. In such cases, you may lose all or part of the value of the
PRiVCY Coin.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

7

3 BACKGROUND

Finance, like most human inventions, is constantly evolving. In the beginning it was basic:
food was traded for livestock, and livestock for resources like wood, or maize. It progressed
to precious metal, such as silver and gold, which was followed by the centralized economy in
the form of Currencies such as U.S. Dollar controlled and issued by financial authorities and
governments.
These centralized authorities, however, have always failed when it comes to the trust put
in them by masses. In 2008, Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy, before which, markets
were performing well and global economies were booming, until one day suddenly Lehman
Brothers fell, the financial system froze, and the world economy almost collapsed. The root
cause wasn’t just reckless lending and lack of transparency, but rather the financial sector’s
failure to keep up with innovation. The bank’s collapse has become the defining moment for
the financial crisis as central banks and governments rushed to bail out other troubled banks
in the US and EU.
Ever since then, the global economy has been struggling to recover from the shock. The gross
domestic product, or economic growth, is still below the levels seen before the crisis. While
there is growth, it’s been painfully lackluster in recent years. In the US, GDP is forecast to rise
2.4% in 2016, the same as in 2014 and 2015, according to the International Monetary Fund.
The UK faces an even uncertain future since it voted to leave the European Union—GDP
growth was 2.2% in 2015, compared to 2.6% in 2007.
Unemployment levels have fallen since the crash but there remains a particularly weak area
of the labor market: wage growth. Right after the crisis, traders rushed into gold. The price of
the traditional safe-haven surged but in a sign that all is not well, gold prices are still very high.
Just a few months ago investors Bill Gross and Jeffrey Gundlach said gold was about the only
asset worth buying these days.
Alongside many reasons that resulted in the financial crisis, some noteworthy points are the
lack of privacy and seeming disregard for investors, enormous fees both from investors and
companies, low liquidity and centralized control and single point of failure being offered by
these financial institutions. To avoid such crisis in the future, and out of anger towards the
banking system for the collapse, unfairness, inefficiency, and disappointment caused by a lack
of change, forward thinking traders and brokers are looking for a solution that will disintermediate and commoditize today’s status quo. A new ecosystem was required where all these
problems are addressed profoundly and the user doesn’t have to rely on central authorities
whose action may result in the system to collapse.
As a result, a new financial ecosystem called Bitcoin was introduced by Satoshi Nakamoto in
2009, aiming to address these problems profoundly, and relieving users to not rely on central
authorities whose action may result the system to collapse. Bitcoin utilizes cryptography to
disguise identities and has a transparent public ledger, which negates the ideological roots
of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies stem from the need for decentralizing the current monetary
system, shifting the power and control assumed by the government and big banks to the
masses. Since the dawn of cryptocurrencies, and in particular Bitcoin (BTC) the aim has been
to facilitate a new breed of the payment system. One of the key tenets of any peer-to-peer
PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

8

payment system is that it has to have superior privacy or at least a degree of privacy. The
Bitcoin whitepaper has a section dedicated just to privacy. It details how BTC has a level of
anonymity which requires the user keeping their public address anonymous. Times have
changed since the creation of Bitcoin though and it’s no longer as feasible to keep your wallet
address separate from your identity due to most fiat on-ramps, such as Coinbase and similar
sites, being required to comply with KYC (Know Your Customer) Laws. Public wallets are viewable by anyone and include not only the balance of the wallet but also how much money has
been received and paid out (including the public wallet addresses of senders and receivers).
This might be great for a non-profit or other publicly transparent entity, but do we really want
anyone and everyone to see what we have and whom we send to?
Thus, it is justified here to claim that Bitcoin, despite having achieved a tremendous success,
has so far failed to deliver on their initial promise: To become a decentralized, private, more
democratic and efficient means of payment and transaction. Consequently, there are many
people wanting to invest in blockchain technologies. However, with the passage of time, it has
been realized that the technology of which bitcoin is based still has become really slow when
it is facing enormous load.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

9

4 PROBLEM STATEMENT

Bitcoin has revolutionized the concept of peer to peer payment by eliminating the role of
the intermediary from transactional activities. However, it also is a reality that because of its
transparent nature, coin holders are deprived of the much-needed privacy. Furthermore, it
also is evident that, over the time, the process needed to do a simple transaction is becoming cumbersome and time taking for ordinary users. Due to the huge load and too many
transactions happening at a time, Bitcoin has been showing many signs of weakness such as:
Sluggishness or more than usual time for transactions (even up to ten minutes in most cases),
Higher Transaction Fee, Highly dependency on Pool System and Large Organizational Miners.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

10

5 SOLUTION - PRIVCY COIN

Considering the huge potential crypto market has, and to facilitate the community with a
cryptocurrency that is fully encrypted, private and efficient, in the truest sense, our team of
highly experience fintech specialists have carried out an extensive research and are developing a modern age cryptocurrency called PRiVCY Coin.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

11

6 INTRODUCTION TO PRIVCY COIN

PRiVCY Coin is a peer-to-peer cryptocurrency and can be termed as a modified version of the
technology on which bitcoin was built as it allows completely private transactions, faster confirmation rates and achieve consensus through the combination of Proof of Stake and Proof
of Work technology, rather than depend on PoW only.
PRiVCY Coin enables instant, near-zero cost transactions to anyone anywhere in the world.
It is an open source global payment network that is fully decentralized without being dependent on any centralized authority such as banks or governments. Fueled by Computation
and secured by Mathematics, PRiVCY Coin network empowers individuals to control their
own finances themselves. Being operated through TOR network— a highly secure private
network— our blockchain network ensures that your wallet IP remains hidden for any transactional activity, and so does your geographical location.
Furthermore, in pursuit of providing the much-needed privacy and ensuring that all transactions remain totally anonymous, we have developed the combination of ToR and Cryptography, which will be unique and ensure your transactions will not be traced back to you. It
will increase your anonymity not 2 times, but almost 4 times. We want to create something
accessible not only by our community but by everyone, where you will not need to register
any personal information to get anonymity you deserve.
It resolves the problem associated with bitcoin by featuring faster transaction confirmation
times and improved storage efficiency. PRiVCY Coin is a project that is created by the combined efforts of hundreds of technicians, miners, investors from all across the world. Out of
the love and passion for the fintech, the team has always been trying to resolve the issues
associated with in the cryptocurrency space. This leads us to the creation of a new digital
asset, a coin that offers advanced features and efficiency on top of blockchain fork. Built on
Bitcoin’s Bit Core platform, PRiVCY Coin will surely be more advanced than Bitcoin and would
eventually become today’s leading cryptocurrency. PRiVCY Coin would continue the Bitcoin’s
mission by taking control of finance from Banks and governments and give it back to the
original deserving i.e. ordinary people, but with full privacy and offering faster speed, without
relying on pools or centralized entities.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

12

7 FEATURES OF PRIVCY COIN

7.1 PRIVACY
It’s a common misconception that Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are fully anonymous
and transactions are private and untraceable. In fact, many blockchains only disguise users’
identities while leaving behind a public record of all transactions that have occurred on the
blockchain. The data in the ledger often includes how many tokens a user has received or
sent in historical transactions, as well as the balance of any cryptocurrency that they have
within their wallet.
There is a concern that even with their identities disguised, users can still be identified based
on their activity within a blockchain. While it’s true that you can transact with bitcoin without
having to provide your Social Security number or bank account, there’s still data on the digital
ledger that could potentially be linked back to you. For instance, the Internal Revenue Service
recently won a court case against cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase requiring it to hand
over information on more than 14,300 users who’d exchanged more than $20,000 worth of
bitcoin between 2013 and 2015. While the move was made, so that the IRS could possibly
go after capital-gain tax evaders, the bigger theme here is that these transactions aren’t as
anonymous as they appear.
With PRiVCY Coin, users can enjoy the advantages of using blockchain, while still being sure
that their information is private and completely anonymous. The amount of coins you own,
send and receive are not observable, traceable nor linkable by way of transaction history on
the Blockchain.
How we offer Privacy?
PRiVCY Coin uses TOR to send untraceable transactions. PRiVCY Coin also employs stealth
addresses that allows the sender to use a one-time user address for their transactions, and
this keeps the transaction private. The recipient only needs a single address, but before they
receive the value that is sent, that block is sent to unique addresses on the chain where they
cannot be connected to the sender or recipient’s personal address. This ensures that only
the sender and receiver can consistently know where payments originated and where they
were sent.
7.2 FASTER TRANSACTION CONFIRMATION TIME
Unlike Bitcoin that takes hours and sometime even days for a transaction to be confirmed,
PRiVCY Coin will use technology that ensures transactions are much faster, no matter what
the transactional load and frequency is. PRiVCY uses technology that allows PRiVCY Coin to
compete with nearly instantaneous transaction systems such as credit cards for point-ofsale situations, while not relying on a centralized authority. Through the use of a consensus
between Miners and Stakers, the signals of a transaction are locked and only spendable in a
specific instant transaction. Widespread vendor acceptance of PRiVCY Coin and DS could revolutionize PRiVCY Coin by shortening the delay in confirmation of transactions from as long
as an hour (with Bitcoin) to as little as a few seconds, and as a result, will make PRiVCY Coin
PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

13

ideal for usage of daily transactional activities such as shopping, dining or hoteling etc.
7.3 DECENTRALIZED GOVERNANCE
PRiVCY Coin offers decentralized governance through achieving consensus by allowing community i.e. PRiVCY Coin holders to participate and work as dedicated nodes PRiVCY Coin
blockchain network. The blockchain is capable of handling any amount of transactional volume, all the time, without having the chances of the network getting down or showing any sign
of sluggishness. All nodes have equal power and control. The currency is not created, maintained nor represented by any one person or company, i.e. a central authority, and thus unlike
traditional financial institutions that allow centralized control, PRiVCY Coin provides complete
decentralization which means there is no risk of a single point of failure.
7.4 ENHANCED SECURITY
Based on the combination of Proof of Work(PoW) and Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus model,
PRiVCY Coin will achieve distributed consensus for every transaction, thus enhancing the
security of your digital assets. PRiVCY Coin enables you to get profound information on all
transactions ever made. The code cannot be cracked or altered with unauthorized changes.
The system is decentralized and securely protected against influence from single users.
7.5 EASY TRANSACTIONS
You can transfer PRiVCY Coin to anyone—anywhere in the world as long as the recipient is
connected to the internet. All you have to do is ask for a receiver Wallet Address or Public Key
and then input the number of coins you want to send in our dedicated wallet. Once you have
entered the required information and confirmed, transactions would get confirmed within
seconds. Every coin is worth the same value and is thus mutually interchangeable. No coin
risks potential blacklisting nor debasement due to deprecating transaction history.
7.6 ENORMOUS POTENTIAL
You can be a part of a project that has the true potential of becoming the world’s leading
payment system. More demand for PRiVCY Coin ecosystem over the time will raise the value
of the coin itself. Investment in PRiVCY Coin will get profit from the raising price of PRiVCY
Coin on the market exchange. The value of PRiVCY COIN will increase from market demand.
7.7 USER FRIENDLY AND DEDICATED WALLET
All transaction with PRiVCY Coin can be easily done by using PRiVCY Coin wallet application
available on our website with any major operating system i.e. Windows, Linux and Mac. We
are also working on the best and most secured Webwallet in the world. Furthermore, in
future, we are planning to expand our wallet to be supported by famous wallets including
hardware wallets. The encrypted technology of these wallets would allow you to secure your
PRiVCY Coin, so that you can view transactions and your account balance.
7.8 PORTABLE
PRiVCY Coin is designed to be portable. With the current major currencies, it is difficult to
PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

14

carry around large amounts of money. Cash amounting to millions is risky to carry for several
reasons, which is why cryptocurrency investors prefer it to other currencies. With PRiVCY
Coin, you can easily carry around a million dollars’ worth of PRiVCY Coin in a few MegaBytes
worth of data space.
7.9 UTILITY AND ACCEPTABILITY
Unlike traditional cryptocurrencies that are struggling with their acceptability and mainly rely
on exchanges and market supply and demand hype for controlling their value, PRiVCY Coin
aims to provide inherent utility by getting accepted as a medium of account at PRiVCY Coin
associated merchants. We are currently in negotiations with many merchants.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

15

8 TECHNICAL ARCHITECTURE

At its very core, the modern banking system is based on a simple paradigm - ‘Trust’. We
give our money to banks and they provide us with services in return (deposits, loans, and
investments). While we could perform these services ourselves, it has proven much more
convenient to use this centralized, trust-based system. To mitigate the potential for abuse
presented by such a global centralized system, decentralized blockchain-based assets, such
as Bitcoin, have been introduced.
In order to keep the system running and achieve consensus mechanism for our dedicated
blockchain—Privacy, PRiVCY Coin uses an alternative consensus mechanism that is combination of Proof of Work(PoW) and Proof of Stake(PoS), where consensus is achieved through
minting. This is the backbone of the PRiVCY Coin financial ecosystem as it provides the decentralized capability of validating transactional activities. It facilitates trust in user’s peer to peer
activities i.e. PRiVCY Coin products and services across the globe, and third-party products
across many different domains. Validation of transactions is done in an energy efficient manner by showing a proof of owning coins and also through traditional mining devices. Anyone
holding a particular stake of PRiVCY Coin, or having a mining device can use our Mining Model
and earn lucrative rewards through staking and mining.
The consensus model that we use are explained below:
8.1 PROOF-OF-WORK
To secure a decentralized network and ensure users cannot double-spend their funds, Bitcoin utilizes a Proof-Of-Work (PoW) algorithm, which requires miners to prove through distributed consensus—a large pool of people who are geographically segregated agreeing on
transactions or blocks are valid and which transactions are invalid to be added/rejected to
the blockchain— have spent a certain amount of computational resources in order to make
an attack on the network uneconomical. Proof of work works as a deterring protocol, with
the main goal of deterring cyber-attacks such as Distributed denial-of-service attack (DDoS),
which carries the purpose of exhausting network resources of a computer system by sending
multiple fake requests. It involves scanning for a value that when hashed, such as with SHA256, the hash begins with a number of zero bits. The average work required is exponential in
the number of zero bits required and can be verified by executing a single hash.
The proof-of-work also solves the problem of determining representation in majority decision making. If the majority were based on one-IP-address-one-vote, it could be subverted by
anyone able to allocate many IPs. Proof-of-work is essentially one-CPU-one-vote. The majority
decision is represented by the longest chain, which has the greatest proof-of-work effort invested in it. If a majority of CPU power is controlled by honest nodes, the honest chain will grow
the fastest and outpace any competing chains. To modify a past block, an attacker would have
to redo the proof-of-work of the block and all blocks after it and then catch up with and surpass the work of the honest nodes. We will show later that the probability of a slower attacker
catching up diminishes exponentially as subsequent blocks are added. To compensate for increasing hardware speed and varying interest in running nodes over time, the proof-of-work

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

16

difficulty is determined by a moving average targeting an average number of blocks per hour.
If they’re generated too fast, the difficulty increases.
The computing power required to carry out the cryptographic calculations only ever increases as the difficulty increases, thus consuming greater amounts of electricity. In the long run,
this would be counterproductive to the health of a cryptocurrency as miners would have to
sell substantial portions of their coins for fiat currency to foot the electricity bill, devaluing the
price of the cryptocurrency. Thus, It can be deduced that PoW networks aren’t financially ideal
as only miners can receive block rewards and transaction fees in return for precious resources, whereas regular users do not see any ROI from holding their coins.
8.2 PROOF-OF STAKE
Proof of stake opens the door to a wider array of techniques that use game-theoretic mechanism design in order to better discourage centralized cartels from forming and, if they do
form, from acting in ways that are harmful to the network. It is also a better alternative to the
proof of work algorithm by achieving the same distributed consensus at a lower cost and in a
more energy efficient way. The transaction confirmation mechanism shifts from a burden of
proof of the expenditure of resources over to total stake held — transactions are confirmed
by simple nodes who hold large balances— and the greater the balance the user holds, the
more likely they are to receive fees and block rewards. While this significantly reduces the
number of resources required to confirm transactions and effectively allows the average user
to see positive ROI on balances held, this system still requires a user to maintain connectivity
at all times, to do so via a high-bandwidth connection, and for their wallets to be unlocked
24/7. During any timeframe in which all aforementioned conditions aren’t met, the user is
skipped by the network and does not receive their fair share of stake rewards.
8.3 PRIVCY COIN - COMBINING THE BEST OF BOTH POW AND POS
PRiVCY Coin is a hybrid system encompassing both concepts of Proof-of-Work and Proof-of-Stake to solve inherent issues pertaining to security and decentralization with sustainability and scalability in mind. In its initial stages, PRiVCY Coin will be a PoW centric coin where
network circulation is increased through traditional mining and miners are rewarded with
block rewards. A proven method for exponential growth in infancy stages where hashing difficulty levels are low and reward-to-work ratio is high.
As PRiVCY Coin’s value, network circulation and hashing difficulty increases, users are rewarded with coins through the PoS algorithm. Therefore, as traditional mining becomes less
rewarding over time, a progression into PoS increases sustainability as energy requirements
of the network are significantly reduced. Furthermore, this increases security as it becomes
significantly more difficult to acquire 51% of all PRiVCY Coin as opposed to 51% of all mining
power and exponentially more difficult as the value and circulation of PRiVCY Coin increases.
8.4 PRIVCY COIN INCENTIVIZED STAKING
•

Wallet is build up to stake the coins available in your balance. You need to have coins in
your balance in order to stake. The more coins you have in your balance, the higher your
staking weight, and the more are the rewards you would get. Every block is processed in
minutes and the reward is coins for every block that is processed by staking process.

•

Staking ROI is between 10 % in year 1, 7% in year 2, 5% in year 3, 1% years after that , this
is not a fixed ROI as the staking needs to be done correctly. Here are the steps:

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

17

•

In order to stake, your coins have to mature for 24 hours

•

To stake you have to have your wallet unlocked for staking

•

After 24 hours, wallet will start mining operation, using your total coins you will have the
staking weight.

•

The higher the weight, the faster the rewards

•

Every balance that has coins, and is staking, it will split in two after staking, giving you more
chances to find a block

•

Difficulty is retargeted every block, so the more staking addresses you have, the higher
the chances to find a block

•

If you move the balance (use the coins) your coins will not be mature anymore end they
will need another 24 hours to mature.

8.5 PRIVCY MIXING PROTOCOL - ANONYMITY ENHANCED
In order to ensure that all transactions remain anonymous and maximum privacy is provided,
we are developing mixing technology. This technology will make cryptocurrency transactions
anonymous. As traditional cryptocurrencies have public, open sourced ledgers which record
all transactions on a blockchain, this means that if you make a transaction with such open
sourced coins such as Bitcoin, for example, then this transaction will be recorded for all the
world to see. The actual transaction will not have your name attached to it, but rather, a string
of numbers and letters associated with your account. Also, it will not reveal the identity of the
party whom you sent your Bitcoin to.
However, for many people, this is not enough anonymity. The reason is because many people
fear that due to the ledger being public, that eventually, their transactions will be traced back
to them by hackers, or by well-funded companies who are looking for key financial information. This is unacceptable for people who want the highest possible levels of privacy. So, many
people turn to coin mixers to achieve these higher levels of privacy.
If two or more people wish to obfuscate the trails of the coins they control, they can simply
exchange their coins with one another. Each participant of such an exchange will end up
controlling coins with a history that’s not theirs, while ridding themselves of any coins that do
reflect their own activity. Similarly, PRiVCY Mixer works by essentially taking your PRiVCY Coins
when executing a transaction, mixing it with a giant pile of other coins, and then sending you
the total amount in smaller units of PRiVCY Coins to an address of your choosing.
PRiVCY mixing service will provide members with hard case of coin mixing, which will be very
easy to use and will make your coins untraceable. Also, in addition to the mixing service, it will
allow the development team to add additional coin protocols, such as RingCT, CoinJoin and
zk-Snarks. Our target it to make this coin to mean it’s name, purpose, and make it as easy as
possible without the user being an expert. Our aim is that PRiVCY coin reflects it’s name.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

18

YOUR BALANCE

YOU SEND

500

500

BOB TRANSFERS

BOB’S MIXER BALANCE

WALLET NO.1

WALLET NO.2

Bob has 1200 coins and he would
love to send 500 anonymously.
So he decides to mix them.

Bob sends 500 coins to his unique
assigned address. He can create a new
address each time he wants
to top up his balance.

500 COINS

500 PRIV

After a few days, Bob decides to spend his coins.
He pays 300 PRiV for a Lambo, 60 PRiV for medical purposes and 140 PRiV for a Testament Album.
Coins paid from Wallet Address NO. 3***, which is in no way connected to Wallet Address NO.1 or Wallet
Address NO. 2
Only Bob knows what this transaction was made for and in no way connects Bob to these transactions.
***Wallet Address NO. 3 - Is a pre-loaded address, which doesn’t have any connection to wallets NO1 or NO2. While Bob’s coins are held on
Wallet Address NO. 2 he makes payments from a totally unrelated wallet, that way he can feel safe and untraceable. Once Wallet Address NO. 3
gets empty, our automatic system creates a new address and all coins from Mixer sent to it. So nobody knows if Bob’s coins were spent, partially
spent or haven’t been spent at all.

PAYS

-300 PRIV

YOUR BALANCE

PAYS

-300 PRiV

-60 PRIV

-60 PRiV

PAYS

-140 PRiV

-140 PRIV

0

Be like BOB, delete your account once done!

YOUR BALANCE

0
DELETE ACCOUNT

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

Once Bob spends his balance, he decides
to DELETE ACCOUNT.
Which will prevent anybody recovering any data
of Bob’s transactions.
Even PRiVCY DEV team will not have that
information.

19

8.6 PRIVCY MESSENGER
With the rapidly developing technologies in the modern world, the risk of jeopardizing one’s
privacy is growing. The web is quite an unsafe place to be and there is an outstandingly high
number of cases when the digital privacy of people is being compromised. When it comes to
messaging applications, the users are mostly required to verify their identity, providing huge
amounts of personal data, including phone numbers, addresses, photos, which makes them
vulnerable to the attacks which are aimed at stealing private information. The absolute safety
and control of private and corporate data is of precedence in the information age. The need
for safe message exchanges grows every day as consumers look for protection against relentless hackers and tracking. Such an application should allow users to exchange confidential
information safely with friends, colleagues, and clients, without the fear of transferred data
being compromised.
Majority of the social networks and messengers today claims to provide anonymity and safety
for their users, but demand multiple privacy related entries for their use: Phone numbers,
camera-use, microphone-use, location data, email addresses, social networking account access, all information that is transferred to servers that can use the data without the owner’s
permission.
We aim to reverse this trend and provide a truly private, anonymous messenger called PRiVCY Messenger uses sophisticated combination of blockchain technology and ToR technology and ensures the much needed trust in private data transfer security.
PRiVCY messenger is a decentralized peer to peer connectivity platform that will enable users
to chat in a complete private and anonymous environment, this means that every message
you send through PRiVCY messenger is encrypted, and sent to the person you want to receive it via a network of other people, rather than going through any servers. PRiVCY Messenger
will work to hide and without the possibility of intervention to retrieve data being exchanged,
such as text or even a file you shared. In this era, we are all looking for options so that people
are not able to see what you shared or what you wrote to your friends or family. We believe
you have rights to share your personal information with people you trust without anybody
else finding out what you shared.
Some of the features PRiVCY Messenger would offer are:
•

Decentralized governance means that no central authority can manipulate data or the
platform itself

•

All messages are stored directly in the blockchain which provides immutability and easy
accessibility

•

No IP Address tracing

•

User’s address book is complete private without the platform being given any access

•

No access to the user’s location information

•

Users can complete be anonymous i.e. without having to perform any KYC

•

All messages are fully encrypted on the sender’s device and then decrypted on the recipient side

•

The client app does never transfer a user’s Private Key or mnemonic phrase over the
network

•

No user Private Data is being transferred

•

The message history is never stored on a device and is directly loaded from the blockchain

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

20

8.7 PRIVCY PLUGINS FOR ECOMMERCE
When it comes to payment processors in e-commerce, generally, credit cards, PayPal, COD
(cash on delivery), are the most famous. However, with the advent of cryptocurrencies, this
trend is quickly shifting. Merchants are interested in accepting digital currencies which are
more efficient, instant and secure. As per our roadmap, we envision developing a number
of plugins, where PRiVCY Coin holders can use their digital assets as a medium of payment
and purchase items from merchants all across the world. Although, there exists a variety
of competitors in the market when it comes to acceptance of cryptocurrencies as payment
method, we are providing users with the much needed anonymity and complete privacy that
traditional crypto based ecommerce plugins lack.
Our aim is to create plugins for the leading ecommerce platforms including but not limited to
Woocommerce, OpenCart, Shopify and Magento etc. There will no longer be restrictions with
the PRiVCY Coin plugins since owners of PRiVCY Coin will be able to carry out their payments
in any part of the world. These plugins will further allow merchants or website owners to sell
their products online and accept PRiVCY Coin as payment method directly on their online
store. All transactional data would be encrypted. The development team is also working on
a new web design and a page that will provide necessary support to all e-commerce users.
PRiVCY Coin is yet to take the anonymous cryptocurrency payment acceptance market. This
is an effort to stop credit card fraud and chargeback scams by making instant payments. You
won’t have to wait for weeks or months to get paid.
Here are some reasons why your website could benefit from accepting PRiVCY Coin and the
benefits PRiVCY Plugins would provide:
Minimal Costs:
For the most part, PRiVCY Coin transactions come with much smaller processing fees, while
in traditional centralized ecommerce platforms, a big share of order is deducted by banks.
Using PRiVCY Plugins, users can accept any crypto currency of their choice at small % of the
total order amount, while accepting PRiVCY Coin is completely free of cost.
Digital:
Being a digital cash system, PRiVCY Coin doesn’t require third party banking entity to process
transactions. All transactions are completely peer to peer and decentralized. Moreover, combination of PoW and PoS is used to achieve consensus which means there can never be any
double spending or security breaches.
Simple Implementation:
Websites and online store owners can directly integrate our plugins into their stores without
having to rely on experienced developers. An intuitive interface with easy to understand features would be implemented which ensures that plugin integration becomes a few step
process doable in minutes.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

21

Security and Privacy:
Implementation of the plugins as decentralized apps ensure that there is no security breaches. Unlike credit card and banking payments, no personal information needs to be given
out in order to do so, which may ease consumers’ concerns about making payments online.
Simplicity:
PRiVCY Coin is totally peer-to-peer, thus, users won’t have to worry about consumers paying
with a compatible financial solution. So long as they have a PRiVCY Coin wallet, would be able
to integrate their wallets with our ecommerce plugins and directly transact for the ecommerce activity.
Convenience:
There is no waiting period before you can gain access to your new funds. Once money is transferred from customers’ wallets to your own, the money is yours to use. Just be aware that
payments can’t be reversed - on either end - which means that if you plan on issuing refunds,
it’s not as simple to do with Bitcoin.
Fraud:
Backed by cryptography and secured by combination of PoW and PoS consensus mechanism, all transactions happening through PRiVCY Plugins are secure and virtually impossible to
crack. And because payments can’t be reversed, you won’t have to worry about fraudulent
payments and the ensuing fees you have to pay for those chargebacks.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

22

9 SPECIFICATIONS
OF THE BLOCKCHAIN

PoW X13
Algorithm Blocks 1 - 1000 - 10 $PRiV
PRiV / block Blocks 1001 + > - 7 $PRiV / block Payout / halved
until PoW is phased out PoS 60s block
Target 1st year = 10%
2nd year = 7%
3rd year = 5%
4th +> = 1%
Current Nodes Addnode=otwsvate4vvogbrt.onion:17770
addnode=nufiijzpo7ac2k6u.onion:17770

PRiVCY Coin White Paper

23

10 TECHNICAL INFORMATION
OF PRIVCY COIN

Full name: PRiVCY

Total premined coins: 21 000 000 PRiV

Transaction code: PRiVCY

•

Marketing & Bounty Fund 2,500,000

Algorithm: PoS and PoW

•

GiveAways 500,000

Block time: 60 second

•

Airdrop 11,000,000

PoW Reward: 7 PRiV

•

Development Fund 4,000,000

Maximum PoS Bonus: 10%

•

Founders Reward 3,000,000 (locked until
the end of AD)

Maximum Supply: 30 000 000 PRiV

Transaction fee: min 0.001 PRiV
Block size: 1.5 Mb
Transaction confirmations:
5 confirmations

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

24

11 MARKETING POLICY

11.1 USE COMMUNITY TO NURTURE CURRENCY
To make PRiVCY Coin marketable, the first step we follow is to find a community and build a
currency around them, rather than building a currency and expecting everyone to show up.
We focus on making it sensitive to their needs and be relevant to their cultural heritage and
background. We intend to conduct seminars, use marketing campaigns, forums, blogs and
use our social media platforms to further enhance and gain trust of our valued investors as
well as entering some key partnership/sponsorship contracts.
11.2 COMMUNITY BUILDING STRATEGIES
Some of the mediums we use for community building include but are not limited to: I. Word of mouth marketing
It means when you are apprised by someone you trust directly. As it says that there is no
marketing better than the word of mouth, we are at a huge advantage because of our already
developed network.
II. Crypto Expos
To spread our message loud and clear to our potential investors, we will create awareness
campaigns all across the world and will participate in crypto-expos. We are looking to sponsor
any events and our marketing team will actively participates in these expos ensuring maximum exposure of PRiVCY Coin.
III. Strategic Alliances
We also keep on partnering with key merchandisers around the world from time to time, as it
is beneficial for both the parties and helps in enhancing the acceptability of the coin.
IV. Celebrity Endorsements
For ensuring maximum outreach to the public, we will conduct events and advertisements
where PRiVCY Coin is endorsed by famous celebrities from different industries to ensure greater visibility to the coin and our platform.
V. Airdrop and Affiliate Marketing Policy
We are conducting a 20 week Airdrop and will launch an affiliate marketing policy for expanding our community and ensure that our message is reached to the maximum number of
people.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

25

11.3 ATTRACTING AND CONVINCING MERCHANTS
One of the most important aspects for a cryptocurrency is: marketing it so well that its miners
and holders have a place to spend it. We know our target group and have the best strategies
in place, to convince even those who are not aware of crypto. We aim to get the currency accepted as a payment solution in online shops to get their attention. To do so, our approach is
not just about educating them with factsheets, but also to inspire them to learn and discover
the advantages of investing in our coin. Money is a ledger, it is a tool that people use as a way
of achieving their goals and satisfying their needs. We aim to help people fulfill these desires
and needs by providing them the right startups to invest in. We know that merchant adoption is similar to miner adoption, however, it is just a matter of understanding their different
outlooks.

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

26

12 ROADMAP FOR PRIVCY COIN

Q3-Q4 2017

Q3-Q4 2018

Idea Seed

AirDrop

Initial Research and team building

White Paper V1.0 Release

Blockchain development initialized

Listing on crypto trading exchanges

PoW consensus model Initialized

PRiVCY Mixing protocol release

Website Development initialized

ecommerce plugins release

Wallet Development Initialized

Sponsorship of key crypto influencers

PoS functionality added

Increased marketing
presence SEO campaigns

PR marketing strategy devised

Q1-Q2 2018
Community Development Started
Website released
Mainnet release
Team Expansion

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

Exciting partnerships

Q1 2019 and beyond
New applications
Android/iOS wallets
Improved privacy features
Privacy HODLers driven development

27

13 FUNDS DISTRIBUTION

We are aiming to make PRiVCY Coin as the leading cryptocurrency cryptocurrency, and have
devised a proper plan that would give our dream a practical implementation. PRiVCY is using
free 20 week Airdrop in which 11 000 000 PRiV will be evenly distributed to registered users.
Continued strategy execution will be financed from Development fund, Bounty/Marketing
fund and Giveaway fund.
Founders fund will be released and split evenly between three founders of PRiVCY after the
end of Airdrop.
Marketing & Bounty Fund 2,500,000
GiveAways 500,000
Airdrop 11,000,000
Development Fund 4,000,000
Founders Reward 3,000,000
Total 21 000 000

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

28

SOCIAL CHANNELS

Website: https://privcy.io/
BitcoinTalk Forum ANN: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4503790.0
GitHub: https://github.com/privcycoin/privcy
Wallets download: https://github.com/privcycoin/privcy/releases/
WebWallet: https://privcy.zone/
Explorer: http://explorer.privcy.io/
Discord: https://discord.gg/dTar3DP
Faucet: http://faucet.privcy.io/
Twitter: https://twitter.com/PRiVCY_COIN
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/PRiVCYCOIN/
Reddit: https://www.reddit.com/r/PRiVCY/
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/privcy_official/
Follow Our Official Telegram Channel: https://t.me/PRiVCY_announcements
Join our Official Telegram Group: https://t.me/PRiVCY_community

PRiVCY White Paper v 1.0 (August 2018)

29

