DEEPONION
WHITE PAPER
Written by the DeepOnion
Development Team

V 2.0

ABSTRACT

Our Whitepaper defines the goals of the project and examines DeepOnion's
Vision. We conduct a thorough assessment of the current ecosystem of cryptocurrencies by describing the blockchain innovations which back up this new
cryptocurrency. It also presents how DeepOnion seeks to solve the flaws
identified within the current system by implementing our latest technology.
Secondly, we give a detailed explanation of the introduction of our core technologies in regards to their technical specification, rationale, testing, implementation, and deployment. Lastly, we provide a clear path to success by
outlining our vision for future improvement to the DeepOnion project in creating anonymous payment ecosystem that guarantees security and privacy.
Index Terms
Cryptocurrency, Anonymity, Privacy, TOR, Smart Contracts, DeepVault,
ONION, DeepSend.

INTRODUCTION

DEEPONION is referred to as a
hybrid cryptocurrency as it implements the x13 proof of work (POW)
and the proof of stake (POS) algorithm. The Onion Router (TOR) protocol is implemented and integrated
natively within the TOR [2] network.
This ensures the security and
anonymity of all peer-to-peer
connections.
The primary purpose of DeepOnion
is to protect the privacy and identity
of an individual by creating a
payment platform that is instantaneous, scalable, secure, anonymous and untraceable.

DeepSend is our hidden
technology that was
designed to protect the
identity and obfuscate
transactions.

payment
primarily
senders'
payment

With the implementation of many
layers of security such as Stealth
Addresses, a technology that safeguards the identity of the receiver,
the TOR protocol was natively
integrated to ensure that all the
connections within the DeepOnion
are protected. DeepSend also
offers security and anonymity of
transactions as mentioned earlier.

DeepOnion minimizes the likelihood of identification by both legal
and illegal entities to promote the
anonymity and privacy of cryptocurrency users by incorporating
anonymity-centric networking protocols and industry-leading cryptography.
DeepOnion also seeks to implement DeepSend and other innovative and proven blockchain technologies such as Stealth Addresses,
which would make it difficult to
violate our users' privacy.

DeepOnion makes the balanced
research or tracing of the coin movement impossible throughout the
DeepOnion network or even with
social engineering. The primary aim
of DeepOnion is to offer an anonymous platform that operates over a
secure and private network.
Cryptocurrency users can now transfer their wealth freely without observation and scrutiny by legal authorities and malicious attackers.

DeepOnion's
Future Vision
DeepOnion seeks to become a premier hybrid cryptocurrency that guarantees privacy and anonymity of its users by introducing the novel blockchain
technologies and improving the current state-of-the-art. The development
has integrated the latest privacy standards into DeepOnion's technology
stack. The latest TOR protocol was incorporated to ensure that the finances
of our community members remain anonymous and secure in every aspect.
We have gone an extra mile by adding VoteCentral, a voting mechanism that
allows democratic and anonymous representation of the future development
of DeepOnion.
It is our belief that nobody should
have their finances or identity scrutinized by financial authorities,
Government entities or any other
individual or group because privacy
is an inherent right. We are working
to offer the latest technology that
will protect the user’s privacy.
Security technologies are dynamic
and because they evolve over time,
we include a variety of actual technologies that would make it difficult
for both legal and illegal parties to
invade the security of DeepOnion
users.

It becomes very difficult for anyone
to breach the walls of privacy
because of our massive protocols in
our network.
This has been facilitated through
the integration of the blockchain
technology that operates on the
DeepOnion network. DeepOnion is
always under constant development since it is an evolving project
that attempts to meet the dynamic
demands on privacy, security, and
technology to maintain a competitive edge of the advancement in
cryptocurrency.

The essential element is that DeepOnion is a community; a family that
believes in financial obfuscation and online privacy. The critical component
to achieving success in DeepOnion project is having a core community and
we take pride in the thousands of people who promote and support us in
such a short period of time. We become stronger when we work together and
together, we are DeepOnion.

CURRENT PROBLEMS
IN CRYPTOCURRENCY

Currently, Bitcoin (BTC) is the dominant cryptocurrency with a market share
and a market cap of 37.6% and $368 billion respectively, despite the fact that
it is experiencing inherent flaws. Most fears in the crypto-world are not only
exacerbated by wild price fluctuations, but also lack of security and privacy
of the crypto-investors. Our point of the argument lies in the elaboration of
what is lacking in Bitcoin and other major cryptocurrencies such as Ethereum,
Litecoin, and Ripple, and how DeepOnion seeks to solve these issues.

Privacy and
anonymity
Bitcoin [1] is built upon an immutable blockchain, SHA-256 bit encrypted that
is publicly available and distributed over a decentralized network supported
by wallet users and miners. In situations where a human identity is linked to
a wallet address through a commercial vendor or a crypto exchange, it is
compromised irrevocably with regards to privacy. The anonymity of a user
can never be retrieved without generation of a new one and loss of the
remaining BTC linked to the same address. This can be compared to having
a public record of your bank statement indicating all available transactions
that can be seen by everyone.
We witness the empirical demonstration of this phenomenon in an event
where an individual considers exchanging Bitcoin into the FIAT currency
through an online exchange and vice versa. It is possible to conceptualize a
typical scenario as:
• An account with the exchange is created by the user who registers his or
her personal details that would facilitate the currency exchange.
• An exchange generates the BTC address which is connected to your
personal identity.
• The funds are sent by the user from their FIAT bank account (or BTC
wallet) to their identity verified exchange wallet.
• A trade is then performed by the user
Unfortunately, the outcome of the above process is that your BTC address
that was once anonymous is now linked irrevocably to your personal identity. This implies that the exchange is in a position to exactly verify the number
of BTC you have in all the addresses (i.e. your newly created address and
your once anonymous BTC address). Furthermore, they can verify to whom
you are receiving or sending BTC.
In circumstances where the BTC is required to share the details of their
customers to Government bodies or law enforcement agencies, then they
also get to know your identity as well as the number of BTC you have in your
wallet. The same applies to the addresses of the persons you have been
interacting with over the past transactions.

The recent Wannacry ransomware [10] outbreak that saw millions of computer systems infected throughout the world is one of the empirical demonstrations of the ability to track this blockchain. The ransom demanded to decrypt
the files of an infected machine requested in BTC which made the wallet
address public and also available for tracking. It became increasingly
difficult in the following months for the responsible group to exchange their
BTC for the FIAT currency because the BTC could be tracked within the blockchain every time it moved to another wallet. Given that this was a criminal
act, many would argue that it is a positive feature but let's consider the following scenario which was perfectly legal.
Try to imagine yourself during a
tender agreement but in a negotiating position. If your financial investments could be tracked by your
competitor by obtaining a list of
your contractors and suppliers
through blockchain exploration,
how would it be? This would definitely undermine your negotiating
position as it provides your competitor with valuable insights into your
finances.
It could also result in other
outcomes such as a corporate takeover, outbidding and full disclosure
of your previous business relations
and investments.

For most businesses, this could be
catastrophic and perhaps one of
the primary reasons major institutions doesn’t adopt BTC because
privacy is a fundamental principle
when it comes to financial operations. (Actually, it is information that
is mandated in several jurisdictions).
Therefore, there is clarity in the fact
that the level of privacy adopted by
BTC makes it fully inadequate for
mass adoption. We can now make
our conclusions on the "anonymous" nature of Bitcoin that is
quoted often to be a fallacy in the
eyes of its users.

Anonymity
Another area of weakness for BTC is anonymity since node traffic is often
sent in a fashion that is unencrypted. The peer addresses of BTC are clearly
visible Internet Protocols that present a prime opportunity for consequently
network interruptions and targeted attacks.
This data is obtained trivially in any
of the freely available BTC wallets
through the ‘getpeerinfo' command.
It is considered a bad practice and
unsecured way to disclose your
computer wallet's public IP address
involuntarily without having any
adaptive security appliances (or
adequate perimeter defenses).

Therefore, it is an imperative action
to protect the IP address of the
client's wallet to safeguard your
financial assets as well as protect
your personal identity. The anonymous TOR IP addresses are some
of the implementations made by
DeepOnion to specifically mitigate
these risks.

Some of the potential risks involved
include the ability to link the user's
IP to their wallet address and
disclosing further the coin holder's
identity. This could result in an intelligence-based attack that is more
sophisticated.

Scalability
and Speed
BTC demands that all previous blocks within the blockchain are verified cryptographically by all nodes on the network. This requires significant storage
space and computing power in regards to the blockchain size (due to the
number of transactions and age of BTC). It also requires a significant amount
of time that would allow processing of the entire chain. BTC solely relies on
the SHA-256 based x13 proof of work (PoW) to mint new coins and process
blocks.
There is also a speed limit on how the transaction takes place which is
proportionate to the difficulty currently configured by the design. A single
block at present has a high degree of variability and has a confirmation time
of 350 minutes. Most services often require a minimum of 6 confirmations for
verification. This means that to send or receive a payment, you are likely to
spend at least 35 hours which rules it out as a perfect payment system in the
modern world.

A Misleading
Market Cap
The market cap for digital currencies can be misleading in cases where units
that were included in the calculation of the market cap are not easily available for trade. The Auroracoin is the best example of a digital currency with
an inflated market cap. It was reported to have a market cap of more than $1
billion but in reality, the bigger portion wasn’t available for anyone.
Another asset that has been accused of overvaluation is the XRP token of
Ripple because the vast majority of the XRP in existence was owned by the
company. DeepOnion attempts to solve the problem of misleading marketing cap as we share openly the number of ONIONs mineable to by the
public. 18 million ONIONs will be distributed freely via airdrop to the community. This forms about 90% that have been set to be premined in the genesis
block while 2 million ONIONs is the number that will be mineable by the
public.

Cost of
Transaction
Some cryptos including Bitcoin and Ethereum might be the leading in the
industry but are too slow when it comes to processing for everyday commercial use. For instance, Bitcoin miners can handle 3 to 7 transactions per
second compared to the visa which has the ability to process over 24,000
during the same period. The resources required to verify transactions in
Bitcoin and Ethereum are at times cost-prohibitive. BTC produces a transaction fee that sums up to $25 during the peak periods. This renders it unfit for
performing cheaper or affordable transactions compared to the latest booming cryptocurrencies such as DeepOnion.

DEEPONION'S
VISION
DeepOnion has a solution to most of these problems since a myriad of technologies has been integrated into the core stack. The TOR network controls
the entire network (see 6.1) which makes it very difficult to ascertain the identity of a user without compromising huge segments of the TOR network. This is
a process that can be interfered with further with the use of VPN (Virtual
Private Network) solutions. This implies that the geographical position of a
DeepOnion user is almost impossible to identify or locate.
On the other hand, there is no
encryption on the BTC traffic which
is the specific rationale behind proposition of the BIP 151. This allows an
IP address linked to the BTC
network to be determined by
packet snooping. In situations
where BTC is illegal in your country's jurisdiction, it could lead to
legal ramifications.

Furthermore, it shows that you are
using BTC and discloses the people
you are connecting to. This is information every user would choose
not to disclose or keep away from
the eyes of the public.

DeepOnion will adopt various industry-leading standards from the field of
network security and cryptography to offer security at multiple levels. The
diagram below highlights our multi-layered approach to anonymity and security:

Smart Contract Security, Application that enchance Security
(eg Bisq P2P trading, DeepVault for document security)
Transaction Trace Obfuscation / Hiding
(eg DeepSend with 2-3 multisignature trustless system)

APPLICATION LAYER
Transaction LAYER

Zero Knowledge
(eg Zerocash, Zerocoin protocols)

protocol LAYER

The onion Router (TOR)

transport LAYER

Fig. 1 DeepOnion's Multi-layered Security Model
We integrate the TOR protocol at
the transport layer to secure and
create anonymity of the network
traffic in between the nodes.
We have included the addition of
the protocol layer [11] (zero-knowledge proofs) in our roadmap to
obfuscate the traces of ONION
transactions to every user but the
sender.
However, we provide
sufficient
and
non-sensitive
evidence for the occurrence of the
transactions. The origins of a transaction will be hidden further when
we implement our DeepSend technology, based on multi-signatures
[12] and completely trustless
system.

The final stage of anonymity and
security is offered by the application layer through the adoption of
services such as marketplaces,
decentralized exchanges and other
services that only operate in a
manner that is anonymous, decentralized, secure and cryptographically verified. These measures will
ensure that the multi-layered
platform gives the absolute best
privacy.
(The confirmation of all details will
be provided at a later date).

The Roadmap
of DeepOnion
The DeepOnion Roadmap as illustrated in (Fig.2) gives a great overview of
features that are yet to be implemented within the project and their estimated
period of implementation. Although it is our endeavor to keep up with these
deadlines, it is not unpopular for a project of this scope and magnitude to
slip. To mitigate these risks effectively, we came up with contingency plans
and hiring of additional members of our development team when necessary.
All delays will be disclosed publicly in any event that it occurs.

THE FEATURES
OF DEEPONION

This section only highlights DeepOnion's features before we provide a more
detailed analysis in (Section 6). We introduce the coin specifications of DeepOnion, its fair process of distribution and other details relating to the formulation and tools of support to the DeepOnion community.

ROADMAP
JULY 2017:
-DeepOnion Pre-Announcement (completed)
-DeepOnion Formally Launched, Airdrop details
published
-DeepOnion Blockchain Starts, Mining Starts
-Website Launch (https://deeponion.org)
-Signature Promotion Applications Ready People can sign up for free ONION airdrops
-Announce DeepOnion Bounty Programs (Translation, Twitter, etc.)
-Signature Campaign Start, First Airdrop Starts 12.5 Million ONIONs will be distributed freely in
about 40 airdrops/distributions
-DeepOnion Forum Launches

2018 Q1:
-The release of the Official DeepOnion White
Paper.
-Launch Mobile Device Wallets (Android)
-Launch of DeepOnion VoteCentral - ONION
holders can vote on new developments and
bring up own ideas for future implementations.
-Hiring a public Hero for more videos and
marketing.

2018 Q2:
-Free airdrop/distribution completes, all 12.5
million coins will be freely distributed.
-More Exchanges trade-able for ONIONs
-More Shopping Sites accepting ONIONs
-DeepVault Web App
-ONION accepted Games

2017 Q3:
-DeepOnion Trades at Exchanges
-Twitter Campaign Starts
-Facebook Campaign Starts
-Introductory Youtube Video Campaign Starts
-Release Paper Wallet and Brain Walle

2017 Q4:
-The Launch of DeepVault - A revolutionary one
of a kind service.
-Our SEM experts begin showing ads (new
videos and content) to people both new and
experts at full speed!
-(Popular Search Engines Organic SEO and paid
marketing)

2018 Q3 and Later:
-Support Zero Knowledge protocol
-The Launch of DeepSend - our next level in
blockchain anonymity in crypto world
-Supporting Smart contract
-Main Stream Media Actions
-DeepOnion Academy - Teaching the world
about blockchain and cryptocurrencies
-Trezor Wallet Compatibility
-Smart Contracts
-And beyond - The community will take the lead
and define new features and the direction of
DeepOnion

Fig. 2. The DeepOnion roadmap

Specification
As we mentioned earlier, DeepOnion is a hybrid cryptocurrency with the PoS
and PoW algorithms. Its emission model is recorded at 25 million ONIONS in
more than 10 years. Here is the detailed elaboration of the specifications
mentioned above;
• 5 confirmations per transaction
• 50 confirmations per block minted
• 18 million ONIONS will be distributed freely via airdrop to the community.
This forms about 90% that are set to be premined in the genesis block.
• The number that will be mineable by the public is 2 million ONIONs.
• RPC Port: 18580 – Connection port: 17570.

Proof of Work (POW)
Proof of Work is a protocol that aims at preventing cyber-attacks that could
result in multiple fake requests by exhausting the resources of a computer
system. It is a concept that has been around even before Bitcoin came into
existence. Proof of Work is a requirement that that defines an expensive computer calculation well known as ‘mining’. It serves to verify the legitimacy of
transactions as well as avoiding double-spending. It also aims at creating
new digital currencies by offering rewards to miners for the previous tasks
performed.
Features;
•
•
•
•
•

X13 algorithm
8 ONION per block will be the initial payout
240s block target
Difficulty retargeting each block
The payout of the POW will be halved each year until where it remains 1
ONION.

Proof of Stake (POS)
Proof of Stake is a different way of validating transactions while achieving a
distributed consensus. Although it serves the same purpose as the Proof of
Work, it uses a different process to complete its task. There is no block
reward in the PoS system and thus the transaction fees are taken by the
miners. One of the biggest advantages of using the proof of stake is that it
has a high energy efficiency compared to the proof of work.
Features;
•
•
•
•
•

60s block target
Difficulty in retargeting each block
The interest of PoS will be variable per year:
10% 1st year, 5% the second year and 1% in the subsequent years.
24 hours minimum holding time before the generation of PoS.

Why is Proof of Stake more preferred?
• It doesn’t require high electricity consumption to keep the blockchain
secure.
• It is not necessary to issue very many coins to motivate participation of
users in the network because of the lack of high electricity consumption.
• Proof of stake allows for a wider range of techniques that deter centralized cartels from arising using game-theoretic mechanism.
• It has reduced risks of centralization because the economies of scale are
not a major issue.
• A lot of money is required to attack the system because they will have to
allocate a sizeable amount of money when planning an attack. They
tend to suffer the attack even if they collect a sizeable amount of money
because they will have upset the stability of cryptocurrencies.

x 13 Algorithms
Just as the name suggests, the x13 algorithm utilizes 13 rounds of hashing in
combination with other 13 different hash-functions (This includes prominent
names such as bmw, Blake, jh, skein, groestl, cube-hash, keccak, and luffa.)
All these make it the most secure algorithms in the cryptography of the
modern era. This algorithm benefits from a high level of flexibility to allow for
the selection of specific hash functions.
It is an added advantage because the adoption of new algorithms can be
done in light of collisions [13] that have been identified in a particular algorithm. 13 hashing functions by its very nature are inherently more secure compared to the SHA-256, a traditional single algorithm used by BTC.

Emission Model
• The DeepOnion's emission specification is as follows;
• 240 seconds PoW block target; which translates to 15 blocks in an hour
and 360 blocks in a day.
• Initially, 8 ONION is comprised in every block.
• This is a payout that halves each year and thus the number of PoW coins
that are minable will be:
• 365 x 360 x 8 x (1 + ½ + ¼ + 1/8 + …) = 2,102,400
• Therefore 2,102,400 will be the total number of PoW coins (This includes
the 18 million that were pre-mined at block 1).
The generation of PoS usually occurs at 10% during the initial year. The
second year will be 5% and all the subsequent years will be at 1%. It is
estimated that the total number of ONIONs generated over the space of 10
years will be 25 million approximately.

Network Model
DeepOnion's network is founded upon the TOR network which provides a
method of transaction that is anonymous and highly secured. The users of
DeepOnion usually communicate via the TOR addresses, e.g. bb3ebyhgfkj3jzfd.onion. These onion addresses are usually self-authenticated which
implies that the address itself gives a cryptographic proof of the service identity. This, in turn, prevents attackers from spoofing the address. There is a multitude of security benefits that arise when the TOR is integrated into the stack
of DeepOnion's technologies. It includes;
• Additional privacy on the device that stored the DeepOnion wallet (Your
IP becomes untraceable and anonymous).
• Cryptographic verification that affirms the genuineness of the network
you connect to.
• Freedom from network surveillance and oversight
• The impossibility for your client being blocked by a particular address.
• Tamper-proofing through encryption and enhanced communications
integrity.

Distribution
It is crucial for a new cryptocurrency to have a fair distribution when looking
for mainstream adoption. DeepOnion seeks to meet this requirement by offering an additional bounty programme as well as free airdrops. [Appendix A
contains the specifics of the airdrop].
The reasoning behind this technique is that most people fold. The
holding of the coin can be emphasized with a 40-week airdrop
because
owners
who
have
received their airdrop previously
gain trust in the distribution model.
This makes them wait until completion so that their accumulation can
be maximized.

The future rewards are offered by
the PoS for people who are ready to
hold. New users are getting prime
opportunity to participate due to the
longevity of the campaign which
boosts the number of DeepOnion
users within the community who are
holding ONIONS. A tapered emission of the distribution of airdrops
ensures that the number of
airdropped coins increases as the
number of participants also grows
[See Appendix A].

The holding of a large number of ONION occurs within the bounty wallets
and development to be utilized when additional recruitment becomes necessary. It can either be as an extra developer venture or as an advertisement.
The collection of bounties is done voluntarily when the community members
complete goals that have been set by the development team.

Distribution
This distribution model received initial criticism which hypothesizes a situation where a Developer dumps their coins after meeting a critical price. However, it is necessary to put emphasis on the method in which the risk is mitigated.
• 2million ONION is held by the founding members of DeepOnion. Its
percentage of the overall ONIONs distributed lies within the successive
airdrop of each week (airdrop completed at the time ofwriting).
• There is a low current volume that prevents a scenario where ‘dumping’occurs. The airdrop distribution method facilitates holding which in
turn leads to low numbers of ONION during a particular exchange.
• This is an open-source project (excluding the currently secured DeepVault that is yet to be released in due course). There will be a possibility
of working with minimal disruption given the skill set and size within the
community.
• The work ethic of the development team is categorically denied by a
dump of this nature and the same applies to the future vision of DeepOnion’s ecosystem.

Community
The strength of DeepOnion lies in reputation and support of its massive community network. Most cryptocurrencies usually fall short of the mainstream
adoption because of their lackluster promotion and small user base. We
understand clearly how essential the social aspect can be from the time of
inception since the formation of the community is done with utmost importance. Furthermore, we introduced a voting platform to ensure that the future
of the project can be shaped by DeepOnion users.
We have created a plethora of
supporting technologies and social
media outlets to ensure that this
requirement is fulfilled. Our official
forum is the most notable and is
available at https://deeponion.org.
The platform boasts unique
features that are not available on
other forum software and gas
always been the heart of our community. We are also dominant on
other proprietary platforms such as
YouTube, Reddit, and Twitter that
are used in our advertisements. The
community projects also boast
having a large following which
shows the great support by our
followers.

DeepOnion has had an extremely
successful strategy and currently,
we have one of the most popular
and largest threads that have been
established on the BitcoinTalk.org
forums. We will continue to pursue
this social outlet because its level;
of exposure is highly beneficial.
Most importantly, it reflects the sentiments of people towards the DeepOnion project and their willingness
of participation, support and involvement.

Forums
Our community hubs are the official forums for DeepOnion and are used in
promotional events to coordinate our ‘call to arms’ as well as a social interaction platform. Exceptional growth has been realized in the official forums over
the past 6 months and is one of the primary rationales behind the continued
success of DeepOnion.
You can get our forums at https://deeponion.org and everyone is free to register. To find out more about DeepOnion please visit our official website as you
can ask any questions you may have about our excellent, friendly community. Most likely, you will be surprised by the number of diverse and talented
individuals we incorporate into our community. You are always welcome to
be part of our journey to success.

Stealth Addresses
The DeepOnion Development team
has taken the level of privacy to the
next level by introducing Stealth
Addresses. As the name suggests
Stealth Addresses are used to
create an address that cannot be
traced by the regular explorers
because it protects the privacy of
the one receiving the payments.
The sender and the receiver are the
only sole parties that will be aware
of the true identity of each other
(and just for the sender, because
next time it will create another
unique address).

However, no other third parties to
the transaction will have a hint
about what transpired. DeepSend
has created a way of splitting the
transaction into random nodes that
would make it very difficult to trace
the sender. This can only happen
when all the transactions are completely untraceable.

To understand more about the stealth addresses, let's consider the
following scenario;
• The recipient generates a key pair (private/public)
• The recipient then allows everyone to know more about the Stealth
Address (Public key) but keeps
the private one secret.
• The sender takes the public key or the Stealth Address and then adds a
random value to it so that it can generate a normal address – so cool,
right?
• Next, they load onions into this address.
• The sender encrypts the private key (the random number from above)
together with the normal address and puts this data into the blockchain
(all this data appears as gibberish to other clients who do not possess
the private key).
• The recipient then uses his private key to decrypt the data and voila – he
gains access to the normal address as well as the ONIONs.

Benefits of stealth addresses
• They add more safety, trust, and privacy to the users.
• The destination of where a payment was sent can only be concluded by
the sender and the receiver
• No third party will be aware of any payments or transactions that you
received from other people.
• The blockchain cannot make a correlation because you send and
receive payments using separate and unique addresses.
• Since no third party is involved in the transaction, they won’t know
anything about the payments more so if there is no direct communication
between the receiver and the sender.

Atomic Swaps
Atomic swap is another upcoming
feature that doesn’t require a trusted third party when exchanging one
cryptocurrency for another. Trusted
third parties used to be a necessity
in the traditional cryptocurrencies
when performing a cryptocurrency
exchange. This was done to prevent
one party from losing part of their
currency without receiving another
currency in return.
From a theoretical point of view, the Atomic Swaps would create a solution
for the need of a decentralized exchange. Although scalability may be a
concern, the development team is working hard enough to ensure that everything is put into consideration to allow for more privacy when implementing
this technology.

Smart Contracts
The support of Smart Contracts is another feature that DeepOnion plans to
have in the near future. The smart contract is hash time-locked and used by
the atomic swap system so that the currency you need to swap can be delivered within a particular duration; otherwise, it is likely to be canceled. This is
done to preserve the atomicity for the swap to occur or none of the currency
will be swapped.

Smart Contracts
This is the pacesetter to all the oncoming DeepOnion applications as they
are programs that execute what they were intended to perform. The reasoning behind DeepOnion coming up with the “Self-executing contracts” is to
allow normal contracts between individuals to be converted into computer
codes. The same version is then stored before being replicated on the
system that is supervised by a computer network operating the blockchain.
The outcome is a physical exchange of a value referred as the ledger feedback. This entails receipt of goods and services or transfer of funds.

If you find it difficult to understand the concept of smart contracts, Nick Szabo
illustrates it as a vending machine– the first person to conceive the idea of
the smart contracts. Basically, you would put some token in the vending
machine for a snack or a cup of coffee. In this situation, we treat the token as
the cryptocurrency. This means that their parties involved in the contract
would have to meet certain conditions before they can execute the contract.
The application of smart contracts can be done as multi- accounts that would
demand a certain number of people to agree for a particular action to be
performed. Also, it can be used in managing agreements between parties to
a contract before the application details can be stored.
DeepOnion seeks to address the
inherent loopholes of traditional
crypto coins such as Ether and BTC.
A typical example is an attack on
The DAO (Ethereum-based smart
contract), where a hacker carted
away a sum of $50 million in Ether.
DeepOnion is rolling out its plans on
the smart contract where we will
have an anonymous (Tor-based)
self-executing contract that tops in
the crypto space. This will be
promoted largely by the TOR
network ensuring that all details
about contracts will be visible to all
involved parties. It helps shut down
all forms of prying eyes as well as
the third parties.

DeepOnion smart contracts are
definitely something that our community will be looking forward to
despite the uncertainties surrounding this upcoming technology. It can
be visualized in terms of when the
development is scheduled to begin
as well as the implementing code. It
should act as a motivating factor for
people who want to invest in DeepOnion because it will certainly take
the crypto-world by storm.

Lightning Network
Basically, the lightning is a decentralized network that enables instant
payments across a wide network of participants using the smart contract functionality. Our development team is currently working towards implementing
the lightning network that depends exclusively on the underlying technology
used in the blockchain. It is possible to generate a secure network of participants transacting at high speed and high volume using real DeepOnion or
blockchain transactions. It will be backed up by the native scripting language
for the smart contract.

How it works
A ledger entry is created on the blockchain by two participants demanding
both of them to sign off any spending of funds (Bidirectional Payment Channels). They go ahead to create transactions that reimburse the ledger entry
to their discrete allocation but cannot be broadcasted to the blockchain.
Their individual allocations for the ledger entry can be updated by creating
many transactions spending from the latest output of the ledger entry. The
most recent version is the one that will be regarded as valid and will be
enforced by smart-contract scripting that is blockchain-parsable. Either party
has the authority of closing out the entry at any time without any custodianship or trust by broadcasting the latest blockchain version.
It is possible to determine a path
that is similar to the routing packets
across the network by creating a
network of the two-party ledger
entries. A script is used to enforce
the payment that effectuates the
atomicity through decrementing the
time-locks (the whole payment can
succeed or fail).

This results in the possibility of
conducting transactions that are
off-blockchain without experiencing
any limitations. On-blockchain
enforceability allows transactions
to be made off-chain with a lot of
confidence. This can be compared
to how an individual carries out
legal contracts with others. However, no person shows up in court
every time they make a contract.
The smart contract can be enforced
on-blockchain by making the scripts
and transactions parsable. The
court is usually involved in the event
of non-cooperation but the result is
deterministic when it comes to the
blockchain.

Features of the Future
Transactions Using
Smart Contracts
Instant Payments
No need to worry about the block confirmation times because of the lightning-fast blockchain payments. The blockchain smart-contracts enforce security without creating on-blockchain payments for individual transactions. The
speed of payments is measured in milliseconds to seconds.

Low Cost
The lightning network exceptionally allows for low fees by settling off-blockchain and transactions. This allows for instant micropayments and other
emerging use cases.

Scalability
It will have the ability to have millions of transactions per second across the
entire network. Legacy payment rails are blown away by capacity as a result
of many orders of magnitude. It will be possible to attach payment per click
without the need of custodians.

Cross Blockchain
The heterogeneous blockchain consensus rules can result in cross-chain
atomic swaps occurring off- chain. There is a high possibility of making transactions across blockchain without putting trust in the third party custodians.

DeepOnion Marketplace
DeepOnion will have its own marketplace where visitors will be able to buy
products or services with ONION payment method. This will be a
game-changer as we will charge no extra fees and sellers will be protected
from chargebacks and other scams. This marketplace will be similar to
Fiverr.com but only accept ONION as payment method. Our main priority is to
protect the privacy of our users and this marketplace will be no exception.

DeepOnion Academy
DeepOnion Academy plans to inspire and create the first step to include new
people and eliminate any barrier that can generate a disruptive and
world-changing technology as the blockchain. The Academy videos are
aimed at educating the masses by increasing general awareness and expansion for the crypto communities. It gives them the ability to reach new people
through the simplest videos that have ever been done since Bitcoin came into
existence. People can now understand more about the crypto world, thanks
to the DeepOnion Academy videos.
The market used to be dirty
garbage that would pump dump
people while the cryptos were heavily abused by the short income
dreamers. It is only through this
education that people can end the
problems and challenges they face
from other leading cryptocurrencies. All crimes that were committed
against cryptos including abuses
and lies all happened because of
lack of education about the industry. Most people usually hate what
they don’t understand and that is
why DeepOnion saw it wise to offer
skills and guidance in whichever
way possible to counter negativity
of cryptocurrencies.

The education project would be the
greatest gift for the crypto world
since we foster peace among our
members and the entire DeepOnion
community. We don’t look forward
to carrying wars, kill more people or
enslave Africa and other weak countries but to recognize them as
important individuals who deserve
more dignity and respect in the
society and the word as a whole.
We set an example and we expect
even a better approach from future
education projects during the adoption and expansion of DeepOnion to
any public.

EXAMINATION OF
TECHNOLOGIES
The strength of DeepOnion rests in its multi-faceted approach to privacy and
security which are manifested by the myriad of technologies that have been
incorporated in its wallet and blockchain. DeepOnion has integrated a
number of common technologies that are also present in other currencies (we
adopt the current best practice). It also boasts several proprietary solutions
that offer additional anonymity, security, and privacy as well as further the
state-of-the-art.
It is necessary to understand the common technologies that are shared by
all blockchain cryptocurrencies to discuss this further.

Blockchain
We can effectively define a blockchain as “continuous list of records that
keeps growing” also referred to as blocks are linked and secured using cryptography. Every block incorporates a hash pointer that links to the previous
block, transaction data and a timestamp. The blockchain is inherently resistant to data modification [3] by design.
One of the effective solutions to most problems that face the existing financial
systems is utilizing a blockchain in a currency. An immutable public ledger is
provided by the blockchain, comprising of all transactions that have transpired in the entirety of the network. This enables verification of any transactions because the inception of the coin (with the privacy trade-offs that have
been described in 2.1), which makes it a simple task in the resolution of
conflicts.

Blockchain Scalability
It is essential to understand the concept of throughput because the blockchain is considered to be a continuous ledger that accounts for all transactions. The maximum throughput of Bitcoin is 4 transactions per second while
that of Ethereum is 7 transactions per second. The reason for this limitation is
due to the amount of stored data in the blocks (block size) – records of transactions that can be stored in every fixed block size i.e. 1 MB, and the average
time taken to process the hash of a block before it is added to the blockchain
(block time). This can result in BTC transactions being completed in more than
24 hours. This is a fundamental flaw in a payment system that was supposed
to be instantaneous. This situation has been improved by DeepOnion as
many folds by integrating the PoS, faster blocktimes and larger blocksizes.
This leads to a theoretical throughput of 62.5 transactions per second,
detailed as follows;

1

The average size of the transaction is about 500 Bytes. The block
size of DeepOnion is 1.5 MB which means that each block has the
ability to hold approximately 3000 transactions.

2

DeepOnion is a hybrid coin, mixed with PoW/PoS. On average, the
PoV interval is 240 seconds but the target of PoS is a lot more
frequent at 60 seconds. This implies that our theoretically combined block time is 48 seconds, illustrated as (240/5).

Blockchain Scalability
For verification, we checked the blocks for the last 24 hours and this is what
we get:
• Block 223460 occurs at 11:59:36 AM on 25th Nov 2017
• Block 225285 occurs at 11:59:05 AM on 26th, Nov 2017
This means;

3

In 24 hours, we have 1825 blocks which means that our average
block time is set at 47 seconds, matching our designed target
block time.

4

We have one block per 48 seconds with the ability to handle 3000
transactions. This implies that DeepOnion is capable of handling a
maximum transaction rate of;

3000/48 = 62.5 tx/second.
This is almost 10 times of Ethereum’s
throughput is more suitable,
scalable and effective for mass
adoption as a cryptocurrency.

The transaction speed of DeepOnion can be increased further by the
future implementation of the lightning network technology [8]. If not
faster, this could lead to the same
speed of transaction, compared to
the VISA network (approximately 56
k/sec). DeepOnion will be the
perfect payment platform due to the
fast speeds in combination with the
anonymity of the Tor network.

Cryptocurrency
A cryptocurrency is a digital asset that secures its transactions using cryptography and was designed to operate as a medium of exchange. It also verifies
the transfer of assets [4] and controls the creation of additional units. Bitcoin
was released in 2009 by Satoshi Nakamoto as the first decentralized cryptocurrency.

Decentralization
Decentralization is the process of dispersing or distributing powers, functions,
people, or things away from the authority or central location [5].
In regards to the crypto world, decentralization can be defined as the elimination of a central processing authority (much like the VISA). Every node on the
network, (a miner or typically wallet) is verified independently through a
process of cryptographic hashing functions with every block within the blockchain.
This approach has the advantage of
increasing the security levels on the
network and reducing the reliance
of putting trust on the payment
processor. You would have to compromise at least 51% of the network
to interfere with the process. Probably, this might not have been feasible given the different operating
systems and protocols as well as
the global distribution of nodes.
Every node has the ability to verify
new block which benefits the
network. DeepOnion introduces the
PoS, taking this step further than
BTC which gives another form of
verification and mining. This leads
to the necessity of having to compromise a larger share of the network
across two channels which is effectively impossible.

Although the verification of each
transaction has maximum security, it
also explains the reason why transactions usually take a long time
compared to the traditional methods of payment. The lightning
network is one of the technologies
that offers an approach to solving
this option of scaling. However, you
will be reducing the security which
reduces the number of verifications
every time transactions are taken
off the core. A complex problem is
determining the number of confirmations or security required and one
that currently is the focus of various
projects such as Ethereum and BTC.

DEEPONION
INNOVATION
TECHNOLOGIES
In section 5, we deﬁned the commonalities behind all cryptocurrencies. It is
also important to introduce the novel blockchain technologies that will be
implemented by DeepOnion to meet the dynamic demands in the cryptosphere. This involves the necessity to improve anonymity and privacy
beyond current efforts.
DeepOnion is an anonymous coin that was built from Supercoin with
stealth transactions that are enhanced by coin mixing processes. A
solid base is provided by Supercoin on which DeepOnion could be
built and improved on. The sections below will detail the novel blockchain
implementa-tions of DeepOnion and the reason why they were selected.

TOR
Tor can be defined as a communication service that is anonymous, has a low
latency, and is based on a circuit. The original design has limitations which
are addressed by the Onion Routing System of the second generation
through the addition of directory servers, exit policies that are configurable, a
practical design for services, an ideal forward secrecy, integrity checking,
and congestion control with a hidden location through points that are rendezvous. Tor requires no kernel modifications or special privileges because it
works on the internet of the real world. It requires little coordination and
synchronizations between nodes. Furthermore, it also provides a reasonable
tradeoff between efficiency, anonymity, and usability [2].

This provides an ideal platform
where to build an anonymous cryptocurrency. The idea of proof of
stake was also precisely decided to
create a safer and stable TOR
network. With the mass adoption of
DeepOnion, the TOR network can
expand to new levels helping to
create a powerful network that will
make it difficult for any person to
analyze the network traffic. The
TOR network will also include new
relay codes with any DeepOnion
wallet that connects into the DeepOnion Network. Therefore, the
better the adoption of DeepOnion,
the safer the TOR network and both
technologies can benefit from each
other.

The TOR network is an open source
project that has undoubtedly bad
frame around the world since media
exploits any resource to sell regardless of whether they are totally
biased. Actually, the TOR network is
the best way for many people to be
heard in countries where there is a
total censorship or means to report
criminal activities for journalists or
whistleblowers that cannot resign to
their privacy for obvious reasons.

The new digital era is making clear that privacy is no longer something that
we have. This is because the new gold for them is our personal information,
without mentioning the number of vulnerabilities that exist in common
networks – vulnerabilities that can be abused by any criminal. DeepOnion
believes that the TOR Network should be used as a default or at least our
privacy on the internet should be something that we can’t resign. It is essential that we defend our privacy before it becomes too late.
Currently, DeepOnion is upgrading to the latest 0.3 protocol that will introduce the latest anonymous features to our wallet that are most secure to
protect our users. It is also essential to emphasize that all connections arising
from the DeepOnion wallet are usually made over the Tor network. Your
public IP address can never be exposed at any point.

DeepSend
DeepSend is a side transaction security feature that was designed to hide
traces of transactions within the blockchain (a problem identified earlier with
BTC). This is distinctively different from the integration of our TOR that anonymises and secures the network traffic at the transport layer. A number of technologies that are comprised in DeepSend include;
• The Zero Knowledge technologies by Zerocoin and Zerocash such as
ZCoin and Zcash
• CoinJoin technologies either with the random mixers (e.g. Supercoin and
Dash).
• CryptoNote’s Ring Signature such as Monero and Bytecoin.
Each technology comes with its own advantages and disadvantages. For
instance, you must mint and burn new coins that are unrecognizable in
Zero-Knowledge technologies since it would require an additional amount of
space in the blockchain. Currently, DeepSend is programmed to become a
CoinJoin and Mixer technology that is based on multi-signature technologies
that are trustless. Therefore, they offer a competitive edge of privacy and
anonymity. In order to conceptualize this idea, think of the following scenario;

1

Person A wants to pay $x amount of money to Person B

2

If Person A chose to make direct payments to Person B, then the
transaction would be publicly disclosed to all (the current situation
in BTC). On the contrary, Person A will pay Person C who goes
ahead to pay Person D. After iterations, Person Z then pays the
amount to Person B.

3

This implies that multi-signatures guarantee all payments that
were done by both Person A and B, and neither of these addresses is connected to individuals.

4

The main reasoning behind this is that Person B gives money to
Person C who later pays it to Person D with a different address that
is unrelated. Given enough iterations, it makes it very difficult to
reverse traces of the transaction.

DeepSend

1. Sender randomly picks two nodes from his service node list, and request anonymouse service
2. Mixer and Guarantor reply favorably
3. The 3 parties exhange public keys and create 1 2 of 3 multisig address. They each deposit a guarantee fund to it. Sender also deposits the send amount and service fees
4. After verifying the deposits in escrow, a multisig distribution tx and a multisig cancellation tx will be
created and sent to each party
5. After veryfying the two multisig tx, Mixer will send the required coins to destination, and send the txid
to other parties to verify
6. Mixer will sign the multisig distribution tx and send it to other parties. Sender will verify Mixer’s txid, if
satisfied he will sign the multisig distribution tx
7. Sender will post the distribution tx to the network. All escrows are refunded, the send amount is sent
to mixer, all fees are paid, and anonymous transaction complete

Fig. 3 Shows DeepSend Transaction: Obfuscation through multi-signature
and Coin Join. [9]

DeepVault
DeepVault allows members of DeepOnion to store hashes of files (file validation credentials) within the blockchain. In other terms, it is a store of
immutable information held within the blockchain that allows members to
verify the integrity of a file over time. Therefore, you will know that the file has
been corrupted or altered when the hashes of file changes. This tool will also
be invaluable in determining whether your essential documents have not
been tampered with and that they are secure. An obvious use for this feature
is legal documents as it allows the verification of this document by the interested parties, hence the content will not be altered erroneously, maliciously
or through file corruption without the consent of the person. Consider this an
expansion of smart contracts where validations of integrity or conditions are
done through cryptography.
• A video demonstrating all details about DeepVault has been produced
by a community member. [6]
• For those who cannot view the video, a manual is also available [7].

DeepVault

Fig. 4 DeepVault – DeepOnion wallet
DeepVault is highly intuitive and has been integrated into the DeepOnion
wallet. It is a novel feature that offers a solution to the simple file validation
which has been the major problem. The processes of file verification and
hashing have been improved by DeepVault which provides several benefits
that are simple to use. They are;
• Generation of the file hashes is done using a GUI that is normally embedded within the wallet.
• The SHA-256 is the secure and trusted algorithm used by the hashing
process
• The file hashes are protected within an immutable blockchain by DeepVault which keeps them safe
from any alterations.
• The verification of the file can be locked to the user thus preventing
others from validating the file.
We believe that DeepOnion is an
essential tool that facilitates our
users to protect and safeguard
themselves in the digital era. There
are innumerable benefits that come
with the ability to verify the integrity
of our files and can be applied in
almost every situation. The Q1 2018
marks the expansion of the DeepVault and the deployment of a
non-wallet based solution that will
be hosted in the cloud. It will allow
the files to be secured by a
web-based interface. We will soon
release all details.

The upcoming DeepVault web app
will also allow the registration and
verification of files online. This will
be a game-changer to clients of
different fields that need a blockchain notary or timestamp service.
The development team will also
create an API which will make it
possible to create a mobile app to
use the DeepVault using your
mobile phone. This is a feature
unmatched by any of our competitors as it is built from scratch and
continuously being improved. The
DeepVault web app can be found
at www.DeepVaultOnline.com

Mobile Wallet
The DeepOnion mobile wallet is yet
to make its debut in 2018 on the
Android operating system. It will
offer functionality that is similar to
the desktop experience (Confirmation of the final features will be communicated) and will operate naturally over the TOR network thus offering protection to your identity while
on the move. DeepVault is an essential feature of the mobile wallet as it
protects your documents even on
the fly. It also offers a natural application for safeguarding your
photos.
Furthermore, users will be in a
position to view their address book,
transactions and gain access to the
VoteCentral. Most importantly, they
will be in a position to send and
receive ONION naturally.
Currently, we are in the primary
stages of hiring an IOS developer
who will make the mobile wallet
available to the Apple devices. The
branding of DeepOnion mobile
wallet• will be done in accordance
with our website for our community
• a homogenous user experito have
ence across all platforms. One of
the •essential elements of our
mobile wallet is the User experience which will be undergoing
•
extensive
testing that ensures the
wallet offers a natural feel to any
person irrespective of their experience in cryptocurrencies.

Fig. 5. DeepOnion Mobile Wallet

VoteCentral
VoteCentral is a voting platform that is open to all and was founded upon the
blockchain technologies that will allow voting by the DeepOnion community
on the proposals and tasks that have been suggested and submitted by the
community members relating to the future trends of this project. Members will
have a huge impact on the decisions made by the community that influences
the DeepOnion expansion project as well as the direction taken by the development team.

Fig 6. VoteCentral – Landing Screen (In Alpha)
It contains many parallels to the existing system of democratic voting in
modern politics only that it mitigates voting fraud because of the additional
benefits of the blockchain technology. Community suggestions or new directions can be registered through VoteCentral before being evaluated by the
Airdrop founders, Development team and the holders who have ONION
balances within their wallet that are more than the necessary minimum.
As mentioned earlier, VoteCentral is considered as a layered approach. This
hierarchy can be conceptualized by imagining three concentric circles:

1

The core, which is the inner circle, consists of our initial founders
and development team.

2

The surrounding core refers to our airdrop founders who are mandated with the right to vote in the VoteCentral.

3

Lastly, the exterior is comprised of long-term DeepOnion supporters, as well as participants who have made massive contributions
towards the DeepOnion project.

Voting is based on a member’s status that was granted through long-term
support (or proven contributions to the community). At this point, the voting
power (vote weight) of the member depends on the balance in their ONION
wallets.

VoteCentral
There are two phases of the VoteCentral, which includes a centralized solution that is supported by the web technologies and the next phase of the
future that will be supported by the blockchain. This software will be used by
wallet owners to the suggested proposals of the community as well as the
tasks submitted, based on the number of ONION that they hold within their
wallets.
In the first phase, we request a proof
of ownership from our participants
through registration of a signing
message. We can check the wallet
address of a member every day
and make a decision on their voting
power with regards to the proposals
suggested, awaiting the decision
from our Development team or
others. Proposals will be required to
meet standards that have not been
defined yet and should also follow
protocols. However, this will be
defined at a later date.

Our Founders, Development team,
and the future Holders will have the
ultimate decision in the VoteCentral
on the direction to be taken by the
project. However, each circle of
members will be in a position to
express their sentiments.

Fig 7. Viewing and Creating Proposals – (In Alpha)
We are looking to establish a ‘living organism’ because of our grand ambitions with VoteCentral where we can accept or reject decisions depending on
a process of robust analysis and evaluation that is supported by the sentiments from our community and weighing in a democratic arena.
We select the best proposals and tasks that are most popular from VoteCentral before using them to guide the future domination (expansion) of the DeepOnion project. By proving your commitment to DeepOnion, you play a pivotal
role in our future as you can raise your opinions, which ultimately rewards
you with a higher voting weight within the project. We believe that DeepOnion
will become stronger the more we build our Founding community.

DeepPoints
The reward program for our community is referred to as DeepPoints which
allows members to earn ONION because of their massive contribution
towards the project. Our primary goal is to reward members who contribute
meaningful posts on a regular basis as well as promotional materials that
would benefit the wider community. A Public hero will be added (this person
will attend the blockchain conferences and be a YouTube Cryptocurrency
celebrity).
Their main purpose will be to boost
the DeepOnion brand name. DeepPoints has flexible and dynamic
criteria, a model that suits the rapid
development experienced by DeepOnion as well as the spontaneous
real of cryptocurrencies. Our ability
to target our whole community and
adapt to a specific objective or goal
portrays the strength of this
approach. There are many attempts
where this has turned out to be
successful with regards to the
exchange listings such as the
Satoshi Exchange and the KuCoin.
There are no doubts that our expansion will extend to the Binance and
Bittrex platforms.

It is quite simple for our members
that the more you complete Official
tasks of DeepOnion (Domination),
the more replies, likes and threads
you accrue (inside of the documented rules whilst avoiding spamming),
and the more you will receive the
DeepPoints. Most importantly, you
get a reward of 5x the standard
remuneration of replies and likes
(Those that were specifically
designed for the mod/development
team to target a particular objective).

2% to 10% of the distribution within our weekly airdrop is reserved for the
DeepPoints rewards. This provides a real opportunity where our community
can earn lucrative rewards due to their participation. It is also a perfect opportunity for our loyal followers to be rewarded by the DeepOnion team.

E-commerce plugins
Our development team is currently working on producing a number of plugins
where ONIONs can be used as a method of payment. WooCommerce is an
open-source e-commerce plugin that has now been released. It was specifically designed for WordPress. Over 380,000 online retailers have already
adopted this plugin and are also used by a number of heavy traffic websites.
There is a large number of users in WooCommerce which makes it ideal for
the currency to be accepted as a method of payment on this platform.

E-commerce plugins
Other plugins being developed include OpenCart and PrestaShop. OpenCart
is an online store management system that supports many different currencies and languages, and it is also freely available. PrestaShop is a premium
open source e-commerce solution available in 60 different languages and
250,000 shops worldwide. Behind all these solutions, DeepOnion will be
making plugins for some of the major e-commerce platforms such as Shopify,
Magento and much more.
There will no longer be restrictions
with the DeepOnion plugins since
owners of Onion currency will be
able to carry out their payments in
any part of the world.

Today, you can sell online with DeepOnion by accepting the Onion
currency on your online store. The
development team is also working
on a new web design and a page
that will provide necessary support
to all e-commerce users at no cost.
DeepOnion is yet to take the anonymous cryptocurrency payment
acceptance market. This is an effort
to stop credit card fraud and chargeback scams by making instant
payments. You won’t have to wait
for weeks or months to get paid.

Trezor Hardware Wallet
Compatibility using the
Electrum Wallet
Trezor is a single purpose device that allows crypto-investors to make secure
transactions. Transactions remain completely safe despite being initiated on
a vulnerable or compromised computer. We believe that the use of Trezor
hardware wallet compatibility will help DeepOnion adoption among people
who are not familiar with security procedures.
It works when DeepOnion protocol sends signed notes of payment via the
internet. A special algorithm is used to sign the transactions which require a
unique key or password. The key is held in Trezor hardware wallet as it was
specifically designed to help you sign transaction messages securely. Trezor
can be thought of as the modern-day stamp in crypto-world. Every Trezor
comes with its own PIN code which makes it impossible for any person to
access your account. Hackers may compromise the computer where you use
your Trezor but they will never get hold of your key.

Trezor Hardware Wallet
Compatibility using the
Electrum Wallet
DeepOnion will be among the top cryptocurrencies that use Trezor hardware
wallet compatibility to ensure the privacy and anonymity of its users. It
supports Windows 7 and other higher versions as well as Linux and OS X
versions. Trezor can also be used with other Android devices that have USB
Host. Firefox and Chrome ate the major supported browsers of the Trezor
wallet. Although you can use other browsers, we cannot guarantee their full
functionality.
Trezor hardware wallet compatibility will be the most secure and trusted way
to store your ONIONs using the Electrum wallet. You can now enjoy DeepOnion without risk by isolating your private keys into safety with the Trezor hardware wallet.

Features of Trezor
hardware wallet
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

It has a reliable hardware, advanced cryptography, and simple interface.
It is small and sturdy
It is water resistant, tamper-proof and extremely durable
It allows for minimalistic operations
It allows checking of essential transaction details before confirmation.
It has a powerful cryptography
Everything important requires a direct physical approval of the user.

THE FUTURE OF
DEEPONION

DeepOnion takes pride in 2017 as a tremendously successful year for the
development team and the members of the community. We are one of the
most popular forum threads you can find on BitcoinTalk.org and have done
that in a period of more than 6 months as a community. We have visualized a
strong growth on our forums of approximately 14,000 members with strong
mining that will support our blockchain. 2018 is set to be the year of breaking
records following the recent expansion of our development team and our
current roadmap.
We are contacted by major investors and exchanges on a daily basis
for listing while the prominent
crypto celebrities wish to take part
in the DeepOnion project. We are
humbled to see that all the hard
work from the Development team
and members of our community is
yielding results. Our development
team is currently working on the
Electrum Wallet and ledger compatibility and the main DeepOnion
Wallet will soon have different style
themes.

It is essential to emphasize that we
will soldier on until DeepOnion
becomes the adopted de-facto
privacy
cryptocurrency.
Our
exchange listings and trade
volumes continue to grow on a
monthly basis. Our message is
spreading rapidly across the world
as we continue to integrate our
novel blockchain technologies. As
denoted in our roadmap, we
haven’t even begun our advertising
campaign. We are very confident as
the development team that DeepOnion will be propelled to the forefront
of cryptocurrency adoption with a
celebrity endorsement and a fully
implemented roadmap.

2018 will be a year of excitement for members of DeepOnion community.
Here are the features that are to be implemented as mentioned earlier;
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

DeepSend
DeepVault Website
VoteCentral
Mobile Wallet
Smart Contracts
Atomic Swaps
Celebrity endorsements
Advertising Campaign
DeepOnion Academy
Ecommerce Plugins
Tier-1 Exchanges

Appendix A
• Airdrop Specification
• Total Premined 18,000,000
•
•
•
•
•

3,200,000 Airdrop Rounds 1-15
6,800,000 Airdrop Round 16-40
250,000 each on Round 16 – 30
300,000 each on Round 31 -39
350,000 on Round 40

Furthermore, 10% of the airdrops will be used for events in the DeepOnion
forum each week to reward any participation at the forum community of DeepOnion. The remaining 90% is often airdropped directly.

Bounty Fund: 3,000,000
The balance currently stands at 2,600,000 after the various events, distributions, bounties, and rewards. This fund is usually channeled to reward contributions such as videos, articles and significant contributions that are beneficial to DeepOnion and members of its community. It will also provide support
to potential new merchants to choose DeepOnion.

Founders reward: 2,000,000

Development fund: 3,000,000
For example, new feature developments and smart contracts. VoteCentral
will determine how these funds are used.

Acknowledgments
The DeepOnion development team would like to appreciate our community
and all participants who have offered us support throughout our journey. This
project has thrived from its roots because of your efforts and involvement.
Although we have the vision and technology, you are the ones who assist us
to distribute this into an ecosystem that is workable. We all benefit from
private and anonymous financial transactions in a world that are increasingly
dominated by the pervasive digital espionage. We highly thank you for your
continued support and we urge you to continue with the same spirit.
The DeepOnion team would also
like to recognize the ongoing work
of their diligent Moderator team
who have achieved massive
success in fulfilling the requirements
of the project as well as the DeepOnion community even through the
festive season.
We send a special thank you to the
community members for the provision of graphics that have been
included in the white paper

DeepOnion is not just something
written on a stone since we can
improve and add more features to
our project. We are evolving all the
time as any other open source
project that includes people from
any part of the world.

Glossary
Whitepaper: It is a report that gives well-documented information or proposals regarding a specific project (e.g. the DeepOnion Project and upcoming features.)
Proof of Stake (POS) – It is a concept where a person can mine block transactions or validate
them depending on the coins that they hold. This implies that the more ONIONs or altcoin you
own as a miner, the more mining power you will have.
Proof of Work (POW) – This is an economic measure that limits the denial of service abuses or
attacks and requires work from the person requesting the service. It simply refers to the processing time by a computer.
Blockchain- It is the world’s leading software technology that is used to build a better financial
system in cryptocurrencies.
Decentralized – It refers to shifting of departments from one administrative location to other
centers.
Hash – It involves taking any length of an input string and giving out an output of a specific
length. Transactions are considered to be an input that is run into a hashing algorithm e.g. the
SHA-256 that gives a fixed length of output.
Stake - It is the act of holding a cryptocurrency in your wallet for a fixed period of time to accrue
some interest.
TOR: It can be defined as a communication service that is anonymous and has a low latency
based on a circuit.
Cryptocurrency - It is a digital currency that modulates the creation of currency units and allows
verification of fund transfers using encryption techniques. It doesn’t require intermediation by the
Central bank.
DeepVault - it is a store of immutable information held within the blockchain that allows members
to verify the integrity of a file over time.
DeepSend – It is a side transaction security feature that was designed to hide traces of transactions within the blockchain.
Privacy – It is the ability of a person to selectively express themselves by secluding any information about themselves. DeepOnion is a cryptocurrency that guarantees the privacy of its users.
Anonymity- The quality or state of being unknown to most people: the quality or state of being
anonymous.

References
[1] The Bitcoin Project. 2017. Bitcoin is an innovative payment network and a new kind of
money. Available at: https://bitcoin.org Last Accessed: 31/12/17
[2] R. Dingledine, N. Mathewson &amp; P. Syverson. 2013. Tor: The Second-Generation
Onion Router, 2nd ed. Available at: https://svn.torproject.org/svn/projects/design-paper/tordesign.pdf.
[3] Economist Staff Blockchains: The great chain of being sure about things. Available at:
https://www.economist.com/news/briefing 21677228-technology-behind-bitcoin-lets-people-who-do-not- know-ortrust-each-other-build-dependable, 31/10/2015.
[4] A. Greenberg. 2011. Crypto Currency. Forbes.com. Available at: https://www.forbes.com/forbes/2011/0509/technologypsilocybin- bitcoins-gavin-andresen-crypto- currency.html.Retrieved 12 December 2017.
[5] Definition of decentralization. Archived 2013-01-26 at the Wayback Machine., Merriam-Webster Dictionary, accessed February 4, 2013.
[6] Community member. 2017. DeepVault Tutorial Video. Available at: https://deeponion.org/community/threads/deepvault-videoguide.3780/.
[7]Jimmybob.2017.DeepVaultTutorialManual.Availableat:https://deeponion.org/community/threads/tutori aldeepvault. 3868/.
[8] J. Vermeulen. 2017. ‘Bitcoin and Ethereum vs VISA and PayPal‘,Available at: https://myb r o a d b a n d . c o . z a / n e w s / b a n k i n g / 2 0 6 7 4 2 - b i t coin-and-ethereum-vs-visa-and-paypal-transactions- persecond.html Last accessed:
28/12/17.
[9]SuperCoin.2016‘SuperCoin&#39;s Revival‘. Available at:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1351548.0 Last Accessed:28/12/17
[10] Wikipedia. 2017. wannacry Available at:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WannaCry ransomware attackLast Accessed: 01/01/18
[11] M. Green. 2014. &#39;Zero Knowledge Proofs:An Illustrated Primer&#39;. Available at:
https://blog.cryptographyengineering.com/2014/11/27/zeroknowledge-proofs-illustrated-primer/ Last Accessed: 01/12/17
[12] Bitcoin Wiki. 2018. &#39;Multisignature&#39;. Available at:https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Multisignature Last Accessed:01/01/18
[13] Wikipedia. 2018. &#39;Collision
dia.org/wiki/Collision attack Last
Accessed:09/10/17

Attack&#39;.

Available

at:https://en.wikipe-

Our Team
DEVELOPERS & FOUNDER

Deeper

Monocolor

Nezero

Community Manager + Marketing

Lead Blockchain Developer

Mobile App + Blockchain Developer

Deeper is an experienced project manager

Monocolor is the lead blockchain developer

Experienced

with a strong knowledge of marketing.

& has many years experience in C++ and

application developer. Nezero developed

Experience in development.

various programming languages.

our Android mobile wallet.

blockchain

and

mobile

Impressive

DogLover

Sean

Web App Developer + Designer

Web App Developer + Designer

Blockchain Developer

Web Application Developer, Graphic Artist,

A web application developer, graphic

A blockchain developer that is dedicated to

UI/UX Designer, Web Designer and Crypto

designer, and a SEO/SEM expert with 17

the team. Working on several important

Enthusiast.

years experience.

additions to the DeepOnion wallet.

Dan Damian

Airtorp

Blockchain Developer

Blockchain Developer

An experienced software developer and

An

expert in C++. Experienced user interface

specialized

software integration.

experienced
in

blockchain
C++

and

developer

many

programming languages.

other

Our Team
MARKETING & PUBLIC RELATION

Kubera

MrChef111

Knepala

DeepOnion Public Hero

Lead Video Developer

Marketing Professional

Our first public hero. Kubera will be our

MrChef

professional

Experienced with online and social media

speaker at blockchain events. Also has an

videos for DeepOnion. He has many years

marketing. A respected member and always

extensive YouTube channel and fan base.

of experience in video production.

eager to help with marketing.

Iamgroot
Lead Marketing Manager
Experienced marketing manager. Behind the
scenes marketing for DeepOnion. Also a
web developer.

produces

several

Our Team
MODERATORS, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, & MORE

In

Bykardinal

EscapefromFreedom

Vaas

Nicolas

DeepOnion Moderator

DeepOnion Moderator

DeepOnion Moderator

DeepOnion Moderator

VIP

Professional Russian translator. Software

Professional Spanish translator, support

Experienced

payments and more. Bykardinal is a

charge

of

bounty

payments,

update testing and one of our technical

specialist

translator. Translates all news and updates

respected moderator of our community.

support specialists.

and

working

on

several

behind-the-scenes contributions.

moderator

and

Spanish

to the Spanish community.

Seele

Crypto Vokain

Mos

Cobaro

DeepOnion Moderator

Video Producer + Moderator

DeepOnion Moderator

DeepOnion Moderator

German translation and wallet testing.

Video producer, community engagement,

Chinese community manager. Experienced

Chinese community moderator. Pengbin

Experienced

support specialist and working on several

in Chinese translation and in charge of

provides

behind-the-scenes projects for DeepOnion.

contacting Chinese exchanges.

moderator

and

support

specialist.

Pengbi

WhoKnows

DeepOnion Moderator

Tech Support + Full-stack Developer

Chinese community moderator. Pengbin

All around technical support. Experienced in

provides

full-stack development and makes several

support

and

community

engagement in the Chinese forum.

behind-the-scenes contributions.

support

and

community

engagement in the Chinese forum.

