MFCOIN
1

MFCOIN

The Virtual State of Freeland

1

THE VIRTUAL
STATE
OF FREELAND

Concept
Our main idea is to create our own virtual jurisdiction with brand-new society
and modern management tools, an extra-territorial state model called Freeland.
Change of the existing state systems is only possible if a new form of an
e-agreement is introduced for everyone, the so-called Public Agreement
which was technically impossible to implement before. Today we offer you a
chance to join the launch of a virtual jurisdiction outside the bounds of existing
jurisdictions but with the prospect of interaction with them on the basis of
certain agreements.
In a contemporary world, a choice of a homeland is a conscious choice of a
human being, not an adoption of an old-school feudal model, where a state
is a major taxman and provides services based thereon, mostly of a very poor
quality. Basically, government in the future will only play a role of a service
company whose work should satisfy its citizens and, therefore, consumers. The
whole notion of homeland will be pure loyalty to the brand.

What is Freeland?
The virtual state of Freeland is the same state as any other existing one,
whether recognized or not. The global difference is that it is organized on a
newly-discovered territory: in the infosphere. There is no logical reason to deny
that this territory exists. There is no reason to deny that social and economic
relations between people can technically be built in it according to different
rules than ever before.

2

MFCOIN

The Virtual State of Freeland

Principles of Freeland
state system:
Within the scope of
traditional classification,
Freeland is a democratic
state, a parliamentary
republic.
The electoral right is built on
the blockchain technology
and represents a direct
agreement between the
voter and the official (or
the robot acting like one).
Elections are not a periodic

act but a permanent
process.
The financial system of
Freeland is based on the
circulation of the MFCoin
crypto-currency (hereinafter
referred to as MFC), which is
a means of payment for the
state of Freeland.
The virtual state of Freeland
allows and maintains
circulation on its territory of

any currency and means of
payment, if their treatment
does not harm the citizens
of Freeland.
We think that the state
shouldn't collect the taxes,
but has to be paid for the
services it provides. The
state of the future is a
service organization.
Freeland is the first
state to recognize an
individual's exclusive right
on his intellect as private
property not subject to any
encumbrances.

What is the decision-making algorithm
in a virtual state?
All the decisions in Freeland are being taken by its citizens by means
of qualified majority (not less than 2/3 of votes). However, any issue
during any ballot should have a binary statement with not more than
two possible solutions to avoid manipulation. Each vote counts as one
regardless of the voter’s social status. If none of the two solutions gained
2/3 of votes, both options shall be considered potentially rational and
shall be polished till the agreed decision is taken in favor of one of them.

What is Public Agreement?
Public Agreement (social contract) is a socio-economic theory of the
advent of the civil society, state and law as a result of certain agreement
between individuals. This theory undertakes that individuals shall in
part deny their sovereign rights for the benefit of the state so that they
can account for their interests via the state. Initially, any member of
such state must abide by the rules and incur liability for their violation.
However, currently existing states aiming at the implementation of Public
Agreement are based on human factor and prejudicial treatment leading
to corruption and manipulation.
Public Agreement of Freeland provides for public coverage of
the conflicts or controversial issues that the state faces. The priority
in solving these issues shall be given to the citizen of the state, not
a separate official. If someone tries to violate civil rights of the other
citizens by means of committing a crime or reneging on commitments,
the rest of the society shall protect themselves from the actions of such
individual.

3

MFCOIN

The Virtual State of Freeland

What is decentralized decision-making?
Decentralization is the process of redistributing or dispersing functions, powers,
people or things away from a central location or authority. Decentralized
decision-making in Freeland shall feature a voting system inside the virtual
state based on Freeland blockchain.

Color Teal: myth or prospect?
The concept of the so-called Teal organizations (or companies) has appeared
only recently. In such entities, the team works without a direct hierarchy and
solves all the assignments in squads by means of self-management.
There is a central body which accepts ready-made assignments and gives out
tasks but no intermediate management in the system. Usually,
the assignments are being distributed from the outside environment (thirdparty clients), however, in Freeland the process works vice versa: the tasks
are being distributed from within by the society itself. Before making any
decision, the team member must consult the others about its reasonability.
The same scheme is potentially possible within a community of individuals
when certain challenges set by the jurisdiction on behalf of a number of citizens
shall be solved by a unified civil society of Freeland (however, this concept
needs to be checked experimentally)

Utopia, reality or business?
Freeland is a game, a reality, and a business altogether. The unpredictable
result and outcome of this experiment corresponds to the game aspect.
For many centuries humanity could only dream about such an experiment,
but it is us who are lucky enough to implement it. Modern technologies –
able-to-get Internet, blockchain, crypto-currency – support the launch of an
extra-territorial state with all the elements of a full-scale and efficient society.
Freeland is a reality. Since it has become obvious that the modus operandi
of state jurisdiction and management tend to become less and less efficient,
the external signs of national identity (territory, language, currency, emblem,
anthem, legal system and other out-of-date indicators) have lost their relevance
and the society is ready for new means of social interaction, such means need
to be introduced. It is impossible to write them from scratch since no one can
guess the vector of the social evolution – and no one ever had. The only way
to form new social standards is carry out an experiment where the society shall
play the role of the researcher and the underdog at the same time.
Freeland is a potential business for every MFC-owner. We are totally aware that
the promotion of Freeland idea shall attract loads of attention from the world
community. We do not offer any new philosophy, we just claim that it is the
right moment to launch an Ideal Democracy and we are ready to create tools

4

MFCOIN

The Virtual State of Freeland

for its implementation. Isn’t just society something that each one of us needs?
A big number of participants will in its turn lead to MFC value escalation.

Is it legal?

We do not print surrogate
money.

There are no international signs that
Freeland is illegal or that it violates any
international legal standards:

We are not a stock
company that needs to go
public.

We do not challenge
territorial integrity of any
state whatsoever.

We do not violate
international human
rights.

We do not undertake
any commitments except
for build-up of social
interaction on the basis
of Freeland blockchain
principles.
Such union exists beyond
current legal norms,
therefore, it does not
violate them.

How does Mr. Freeman come in?
Animated character Mr. Freeman is a 100% non-commercial product and some
sort of a digital Messiah who brings along a truly important idea that each
and any human is free and the freedom does not have to be acquired as it
is already within us. In 2010, Freeman’s ideas led to a realization of a demand for
an extra-territorial (virtual) state with an ideal democracy and a self-regulatory
society able to form effective management tools. Thanks to Mr. Freeman the
true idea of freedom has been brought home to millions of people in Eastern
and Western Europe. Today Freeman is entering the rest of the world with his
public message. It is him, who is going to play the role of a symbol and a voice
of Freeland.

5

MFCOIN

The Virtual State of Freeland

Official Freeland Manifesto
The modus operandi of most jurisdictions today is in a state of harsh crisis
or even stagnation. Change is unlikely since all those systems are too rigid.
However, the world around us is changing rapidly. Our idea is as simple:
to create our own virtual jurisdiction with a totally new society and up-to-date
means of management and control. In the long run, we could even get rid
of this stagnant system throughout the whole planet and create a new one
called Freeland.
The aforementioned idea has been occupying the minds of the best sophists
for centuries but was technically chimerical. Any jurisdiction is run by the
most ancient and inefficient tool ever – people. The only operating link
between them is absolute subordination which entails corruption and crisis.
Nowadays, the total failure of such a system has proven itself: most innovative
technological solutions in all branches of activity are being generated
outside of state control (EVs, drones, alternate network protocols, blockchain
technology, crypto-currency, car-sharing, crowdfunding, social networks,
just to mention a few).
Change is only possible if a new form of e-agreement is introduced for
everyone, the so-called Public Agreement. The idea of such a treaty has been
floating around for a while, however, it was technically impossible to implement
it before. We are creating a virtual jurisdiction outside the bounds of existing
jurisdictions but with the prospect of possible interaction with them. Therefore,
in due course we will have to change the status of the virtual jurisdiction so it
becomes a territorial one in the framework of the current international law..

What is e-citizenship of Freeland?
Как устроено электронное гражданство?
Freeland electronic citizenship (or just: Freeland citizenship) of every citizen
shall be recorded not in a standard database but in Freeland blockchain
which also stores the following data: MFC transactions, wallet details, public
information about Freeland citizens, adopted laws, voting results, input data
and evaluation results of smart contract deals (both in open and encrypted
form), as well as all other Freeland activities that need to be documentarily
registered.

6

MFCOIN

The Virtual State of Freeland

How can I become a citizen of Freeland?
Anyone can become a citizen of Freeland and a member of ICO in two simple
stages. The requirements include a minimal investment in the amount of
50 000 MFC to the Central Freeland wallet and public voting. Registration fee
may change in the result of public voting of Freeland citizens. As soon as the
money enters the Central Freeland wallet, the owner shall be considered a
potential Freeland citizen and shall be deemed ready to a public discussion of
the agreement between him and Freeland. Then the candidate should fill in
the online form with questions to a potential Freeland citizen (the form is also
needed to prove that the candidate is a real person). The answers of all the
candidates shall be published quarterly and will only be available for viewing to
Freeland citizens. The second stage is voting
of all current Freeland citizens with a requirement of a qualified majority.
Those who have passed shall get a notification about their newly-acquired
status and information on how to get the Freeland passport. Those who failed
the second stage shall get all the coins they paid as the entrance fee back from
the Central Freeland wallet. Second citizenship application can be submitted
only in one year.

What are
the features
of the personal
account?

MFC Standard Wallet:

Personal online account shall provide for
the following options and tools:

MFC Wallet
Number of transactions
Number of unconfirmed
transactions
MFC transfer
MFC request/receipt
Address book
Freeland citizenship
application form (if the
amount in the account is not
less than 50.000 MFC and
the citizenship has not been
acquired yet))

Data of the virtual
jurisdiction for Freeland
citizens:
		Details of the electronic passport
or ID (name of the owner, date of
issue)
		Electronic signature setup and
registration form
		Smart-contract launch form
		Waiver of Freeland citizenship

How is the citizenship recorded in the system?
The fact of Freeland citizenship obtainment shall be recorded in the blockchain
for security reasons since after publication this data cannot be altered,
corrected or deleted. The following details shall be stored in the blockchain:
personal index number of the registered citizen, his unique name and number
of his MFC wallet, date and time of the citizenship obtainment, date of
citizenship fee transfer to the Central Freeland wallet.

Can I opt out of Freeland citizenship?
Freeland citizenship can be deactivated by means of sending a public notice
from the personal account of the citizen and by means of simple identification
of the user in case if a third-party user gained access to the account. After the
citizenship refusal the citizenship fee shall not be returned and shall be kept in
Freeland treasury. However, this procedure may change and shall be regulated
by public voting of Freeland citizens.

7

MFCOIN

The Virtual State of Freeland

Can I delete the history of my performance and
activities inside Freeland?
No, this is impossible, since all the data concerning citizenship, documents,
crypto-currency, laws and other activities inside Freeland is recorded inside
the blockchain and in no event shall be deleted. By accepting the citizenship,
the potential candidate agrees with these terms and conditions and claims that
he fully understands their consequences.

Passport of a Freeland citizen:
details and odds
How can I obtain a passport of a Freeland citizen?
Passport of a Freeland citizen is an electronic or paper document which
confirms the participation of this or that person in Freeland life and activities.
Every passport holder has his liabilities in liaison with state decision-making
that requires public voting. Initially, passport of a Freeland citizen does not
provide for any international preferences until the very moment
of establishment of interaction with other jurisdictions.

What are the perks
of Freeland citizenship?
Creation and execution
of financial tools and
products with brand new
spectrum in a legit and
user-friendly jurisdiction.
Open exploitation of all
Freeland informational
perks including smartcontract execution tools.
Acquisition of a
consultative voice in the

process of legislation
and charter buildup.
Resources for high
capitalization of
personal assets invested
in the financial system of
the new jurisdiction.
Participation in the
state financial system
buildup with a right to
make decisions within

financial leverage
bodies.
Participation in a userfriendly jurisdiction
buildup for the personal
existing business.
Participation in the
initiative with huge
resources.
Lobbying potential
in reclaiming a new
market niche in a new
jurisdiction without any
corruptive or anti-ethical
ways.

Is anonymity an option for Freeland citizens?
Freeland is a civil society where people use their real names from everyday
life for the sake of communication security. However, each citizen has a choice
whether to indicate his real name in the open or not.

8

MFCOIN

The Virtual State of Freeland

What are the so-called
smart-contracts?
A smart-contract is a description of terms and conditions and the algorithm
of execution thereof stored in a decentralized environment without any human
influence on the final evaluation. There also exist contractual relations (relations
in between two human agents) which can be self-running and self-sufficient in
full or in part.
All the data of the smart-contracts shall be stored in open or encrypted form
(as of the wish of the agent) as additions to Freeland blockchain

Who is the signer of the smart-contract?
Parties that accepted the terms and conditions of electronic signatures shall be
the signers of the smart-contracts. Number of a personal MFC-wallet and other
electronic signatures accepted by Freeland shall serve as a proper signature.

What are the terms and the subject of a smart-contract?
Only the object that is inside the environment of the smart-contract can be
the subject of the contract. Alternatively, the smart-contract should have direct
access to its subject without any human interference. This issue can in part be
solved by means of availability of unique MFC-wallets and electronic passports
of Freeland which can be extra sources of data occurrence (fulfilment and nonfulfilment of terms and conditions) for the smart-contracts.
Terms and conditions of a smart-contract shall have full mathematical
description (the logic of fulfilment and non-fulfilment of the clauses) which
can be pre-programmed in the smart-contract environment.

9

MFCOIN

The Virtual State of Freeland

2

BLOCKCHAIN

How does blockchain work?
Blockchain is a tool for storage of incoming data (transactions, terms and
conditions of contracts, liabilities, penalties, payments, tracking information,
document registration, etc.) which needs to be 100% exact. Blockchain also
provides an opportunity to check the aforementioned data at any moment
in time. Any type of data can be stored in a blockchain: texts, pictures, digital
information. The only (and the most important!) difference from other
databases and their control systems is decentralization. Blockchain data is not
stored in one place, it is spread through all the user computers included in
the chain. As soon as a new activity takes place (execution of a new contract,
coin transfer from one MFC-wallet to another), it is at once recorded in the
blockchain in an open or an encrypted way available for all blockchain users.
If a record in one of the computers which are part of the chain is different from
the same record in the rest of the computers (more than 50%), such blockchain
shall be deemed altered and shall be excluded from the work process. Due to
such a system, hacking is highly unlikely. To hack a blockchain one needs to
have access to more than a half of the computers that participate in it and know
their coordinates. Blockchain technology is really secure by design and has high
fault tolerance.

What does “hash” stand for?
Hash is a hash code which is the result of processing certain data with a hash
function (hash-coding). Hash-coding is a process which transforms large
volumes of data (millions of bytes) into a relatively short line (say, 32 bytes),
therefore, it is easy to distinguish input data from any other data.
Hash is used for quick knowing apart one type of data from another without
step-by-step (or more like byte by byte) verification. One-time data hashing
is enough for comparing only the hashes.

10

MFCOIN

Blockchain

What is a blockchain fork?
A number of miners form several blocks at a time. There are cases when a
number of new blocks consider one and the same block the preceding one
thus forming a temporary fork. Data exchange with the unified network can
be limited since one of the chains can be developed within the limits of a local
network. In this case both chains can be produced concurrently. When block
retranslation is restored, the network will automatically consider the longer
chain as the genuine one. If both chains have the same length, concurrent
development will last till one of the chains creates a new block. The newlybaked longer chain shall be deemed genuine and the other chain shall be
cancelled.
Transactions within the cancelled chain shall be deemed to be out of the block
and shall be queued to enter the main block. MFC awards for creating cancelled
blocks shall not be duplicated in the other chain and shall disappear.

Where is all the data recorded?
Digital records are tied up in blocks which, in turn, are cryptographically and
chronologically linked into a chain by means of mathematical algorithms.
Each block is connected with the previous one and contains a number of
records. This is the way a blockchain is formed, with all the initial data in
the beginning and new records in the end. The set-up of the blocks
is always consecutive.

How can the accuracy
of data inside the blockchain be verified ?
Blockchains are not stored in one place. They are distributed among hundreds
and even thousands of computers all over the world. Any network user has free
access to the current register which, therefore, is 100% transparent to all the
participants. The encrypting process known as “hashing” is executed by a huge
number of computes working in one network. If they all get the same result
after the calculations, the block shall be granted a unique signature. As soon
as the register is updated with the new block, it cannot be modified anymore.
So, there is no way such block can be forged. Only new records can be added
to this block. The register is being updated simultaneously for all the computers
within the network. Blockchain is secure by design due to its decentralized
nature, hacking is only possible with the access to more than a half of network
computers. This technology keeps private data since the hashing process is
irreversible. Even if the original document is modified later, it will acquire a new
digital signature which will message about misfits within the system.

What can be recorded in a blockchain?
Any data concerning money transfer, granted loans, rights of ownership,
spousals, copyrights, deals, terms and conditions of contracts can be stored
in a blockchain, pretty much anything.

11

MFCOIN

Blockchain

Is blockchain data true and trustworthy?
All the blocks and their contents are open for everyone all the time. Anyone
can read any block and see all the records therein. Anyone can follow the
blockchain concerning any object and see any data about its activities. Thus,
all the data inside a blockchain can be easily verified. There is no need to trust
other blockchain members since any piece of information can be doublechecked in the chain itself.

What data is open and what data is encrypted?
The following data
is recorded in an open form:
all public and official information about
the virtual jurisdiction of Freeland;
all MFC transactions;
details of electronic passports of all
Freeland citizens;
details of passports of all Freeland
citizens;
all Freeland voting results and agenda;
adopted laws, norms and legal acts.

12

MFCOIN

Blockchain

The following data
is recorded in an encrypted form
only for Freeland citizens:
		 details of private smart-contracts;
		 other private information which is kept
in an encrypted form by the citizens.

3

CRYPTOCURRENCY

What is a crypto-currency?
A crypto-currency is a digital asset designed to work as a medium of exchange
using cryptography (electronic signature based on the system with an open
key, sequential hashing) to secure the transactions and to control the creation
of additional units (coins) of the currency. Crypto-currencies use decentralized
control and are secure by design. Transaction data is usually not encrypted and
available in its open form.

What is a transaction block?
A transaction block is a block of data which contains records of executed
transactions in between crypto-currency owners. Blocks confirmed by
the network contain information about transactions that already took place.
There are also unconfirmed blocks which contain data about recent
transactions which haven’t been recorded into the previous blocks yet
and are awaiting confirmation.

What is mining?
Mining is the only means of getting crypto-currencies. It is the process of
releasing coins into circulation based on solving math tasks by the computers
all over the world but within the network. Mining is secure by nature since it
is a decentralized process. All network transactions shall be recorded into the
blockchain available to all the users. Miners have to figure out the only hash
that is a match to all the new transactions and the secret key for a reward.
A big number of miners are trying to get the reward for one and the same block
at the same time. When the hash is figured out and a new block is added to
the blockchain, the miner who successfully added the block is awarded newly
generated coins. The miners transfer to the next block.

13

MFCOIN

Crypto-currency

What are the PoW and PoS protocols?
Proof-of-Work and Proof-of-Stake are the two most well-known algorithms
of crypto-currency consensus. They provide for two different mechanisms of
proving the amount of work done.
Proof-of-Work is an economic measure to deter DoS-attacks and other service
abuses such as spam on a network by requiring some work from the service
requester. It has two key features:
- the work must be hard and labour-intensive;
- the result must be easy and fast to check.
PoW tasks require large computation capacities. Such computations can be
carried out only in interactive mode and the level of complexity is very high,
while the revision process is fast and simple. The units can make sure that a
miner found a correct task but it is impossible to predict what miner shall figure
out the block due to a highly labour-intensive and incidental nature of the
process. Therefore, each block shows that certain work has been carried out to
figure it out. High complexity level of the process secures the blockchain from
unauthorized access and double costs. Computing powers used for hashing are
huge and overtop the capacities of the most power-packed super computers,
so in no time, PoW became a monster swallowing enormous doses of
electricity. This is how its first alternative appeared – and that is Proof-of-Stake.
Proof-of-Stake provides for data hashing in search for a result with a value less
than an estimated one, however, the complexity is spread proportionally and in
compliance with the balance of the unit (that is, in compliance with the amount
of coins on the user’s account). Therefore, a unit with a large balance has a
bigger chance to mine a next block. Such scheme looks more attractive due to
modest requirements to the computing capacity and no wasted capacities.

What is PoL?
Proof-of-Labour is a function of getting MFC from the central Freeland wallet
(pre-mining or zero block budget) for the benefit of users doing certain type
of work for Freeland. Cost estimation is executed by means of negotiation
between Freeland founders and executor.

Security protocol:
MFCoin
Proof-of-Work и Proof-of-Labour.
parameters
Основные параметры MFC

MFC is a clone of a well-known
crypto-currency LiteCoin.

14

MFCOIN

Crypto-currency

Hashing algorithm: scrypt.

Twofold cutback of
the reward for the mined block:
once for each 400 000 blocks.

Time required to mine
a new block: 5 minutes

Pre-mining:
10.000.000 MFC
[Proof-of-Labour budget].

Remuneration for each block:
50 MFC.

Total amout of coins: 50.000.000
MFC.

What kind of software is required?
Before dealing with any crypto-currency one needs to open a wallet which is
a unique digital address and serves and a user ID in the system. Such wallet can
be launched through certain web-services or installed on the gadget.

Further emissions
After all the coins are issued, Freeland citizens will make a decision concerning
further MFC emissions and means thereof. This clause shall be part of a smartcontract in Freeland blockchain which specifies all MFC rules that come into
effect after the mining of the first emission is completed.

Trading
In 2017, MFC is planned to enter several stock exchanges for free circulation
and potential of fast purchase using other crypto-currencies.

Wallets for desktop OS
We offer multi-platform solutions.
There are clients available for Windows, Linux (Ubuntu) and Mac (OS X):
Mac (OS X) MFCoin-Qt-OSX-v1001.dmg
Linux (Ubuntu) MFCoin-android.apk
Windows MFCoin-qt.exe

Android-wallet
Secured wallet for Android which doesn't require a local blockchain copy.
It is also very economical in terms of traffic usage and battery life. This wallet
supports Bitcoin / Litecoin.

Web/Mobile-wallet
It is a universal web-wallet available for all platforms, including mobile
platforms, iPhone and Android. All the important data including the keys is
stored on the client’s side, so the users keep total control over their coins.
The wallet itself shall be stored on our servers.

Paperback wallet
One of the most popular ways of secured crypto-currency storage is
a paperback wallet. We provide the service for generating a paper wallet
(a code or a QR-code which needs to be printed).

15

MFCOIN

Crypto-currency

What is the legal status of MFC?
As of now, MFC has the same legal status as other crypto-currencies: Bitcoin,
LiteCoin, Etherium, etc. Their legal status varies in different jurisdictions and is
not stable, however, it is not the currencies and their circulation that is limited
but their exploitation in fraudulent schemes and other criminal activities.

Rumour has it, crypto-currency
is a financial bubble or a Ponzi scheme.
Is that so?
No, it is not. Crypto-currencies are secured against natural flow of services and
goods. Since their amount is limited, progressive deficiency starts to unravel,
thus the price of the currency goes up. If the demand goes down, it also
happens gradually and never tremendously (like what happens with financial
pyramids), since the currency is secured against goods, services and fiducial
money. Financial pyramids require constant fund raising and the income of
the preceding participants is secured from the deposits of the succeeding ones.
Such a scheme guarantees cost escalation of the pyramid surrogates up to a
certain moment. Crypto-currencies do not show stable growth and have the
same stock indices as those of securities, natural resources, open joint stock
companies.

16

MFCOIN

Crypto-currency

4

FREELAND
ROADMAP
What has been done as of today?
The following workload has been done:
Freeland concept and purposes have been specified.
A pool of domains serving MFCoin and Freeland
has been registered.
Accounts in all social networks have been registered.
MFCoin and Freeland names have been registered
in the WIPO-system.
MFC logo has been registered in the WIPO- system.
Freeland Manifesto has been written.
Base for MFC currency has been prepped and MFC mining
has been launched.
MFCoin website with a secure https protocol has been
set in motion..

Near-term Prospects
The workload for the upcoming year is as follows:
Write a Freeland basic document of freedom safety.
Launch a registration system for citizens based on Freeland
blockchain.
Create a system of issues to be voted on based on Freeland
blockchain.
Create a voting system based on Freeland blockchain.
Start the delivery of electronic and classic (paper) state passports.

17

MFCOIN

Freeland Roadmap

Middle-term Prospects
The workload for the middle term is as follows:
Create a smart-contract maintenance system based on Freeland
blockchain.
Launch mechanisms of social and P2P interaction in between
citizens.
Make MFC one of the top 10 world crypto-currencies.
Establish Freeland HQ and its virtual Ministry of Foreign Affairs to
start diplomatic relations with classic state formations.

Long-term Prospects
The workload for the long term is as follows:
Carry out the largest in the history of humanity experiment on
launch of an Absolute Democratic Society.
Form new efficient mechanisms of social management and a socalled Teal jurisdiction.
Create the first ever electronic version of a Public Agreement.
Create the first virtual jurisdiction that has established diplomatic
relations with classic state formations.
Bring it home to the whole world that mechanisms of state
structures are outdated and the society can function successfully
out of the bounds thereof.
Launch a business-model of a service jurisdiction which provides
certain services to its citizens and companies.

18

MFCOIN

Freeland Roadmap

5

TEAM
Mr. Freeman
Project Lead

Mr. Freeman is an animated
and digital entity which
created the whole Freeland
project and specified all the
basic notions of Freedom
in the modern digital
world, both internal and
social (external). Freeman’s
audience features almost
20 million beholders all over
the world who can think
and create. His influence
on the modern culture is
hard to underestimate or
deny. During an opening
ceremony of Banksy’s
park Dismaland in London
Freeman was on display on
all the screens as a symbol
of pure and absolute digital
freedom.

Sergey Barvenko
Tech Lead — Private
Trader
Sergey is one of Freeland
founders. He has higher
financial and technical
education with a major in
information technologies.
He has been working in
financial and banking
spheres starting from 1994
and currently acts as a
personal trader and cryptocurrency consultant (since
2012).

Pavel Cherkashin
Financial Mentor
Managing Partner,
GVA Capital

Nikodim Musatov
Conceptual Mentor CEO,
Digital Order

Nikodim is one of Freeland
masterminds. For over
15 years, he has been CEO
of his own Teal company
– developer of software,
P2P systems and network
protocols.

19

MFCOIN

Team

Pavel is one of Freeland
founders, as well as the
founder of Actis (part of
Wunderman), AdWatch
(currently part of AEGIS/
Isobar) and Sputnik
Labs (currently part of
TechnoServ A/S). He is
a “Business Angel-2012”
according to Russian Venture
Company. Pavel held senior
positions in companies like
Adobe, Siebel and Microsoft.

Denis Aleinikov
Legal Advisor
Senior Partner,
Aleinikov & Partners

Denis has a 15-year
professional experience
in consulting on
investment projects with
participation of foreign
capital in different sectors
of industry, energetics,
infrastructure, real estate
and construction, IT and
public catering. According
to an international rating
of lawyers Chambers
Global (2015) Denis is an
“outstanding lawyer in terms
of dispute settlement”.
Denis has acted as
a consultant for McDonald's,
British-American Tobacco,
HARIBO and other
transnational corporations
in a wide range of issues
connected with business
affairs in the territory of
Belarus.

