WHITEPAPER VERSION 1.0
BITCICHAIN VERSION: 1.0

BİTCİ TEKNOLOJİ A.Ş.
2020

INDEX
ABSTRACT

1

INTRODUCTION

2

V s on and M ss on
BITCI ECOSYSTEM

3

• B tc Exchange Crypto Currency Trading Platform
• B tc cha n
• B tc co n
• B tc E-Wallet
• B tc Explorer
• B tc Pay
• Brand / Fan Token
• Supplier Chain Monitoring
• Loyalty Tokens
• Smart Contracts
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS

11

BITCICOIN

12

DATA SECURITY

14

ROADMAP

15

BITCICOIN TEAM

17

OTHER INFORMATION AND UPDATES

19

LEGAL NOTICE

20

1. ABSTRACT
W th th s Wh tepaper, t s a med to prov de techn cal nformat on related to the
ﬁrst co n of Turkey, B tc co n, that has ts own blockcha n network ntegrated w th
stock market and payment platform and related to other appl cat ons that serve
B tc co n ecosystem.

B tc co n s l ke a common share of the smart contracts and token projects that
operate on the B tc cha n network and represents the value of B tc cha n network.
At the same t me, the network fees of smart contract and token transfers made
over B tch cha n are pa d w th B tc co n. B tc co n may be stored n pr vate
ndependent wallets that operate over B tc cha n network and may be used for fast
person-to-person money transfer over B tc cha n network.

Tokens of each project operat ng over B tc cha n blockcha n may eas ly be
converted to B tc co n and may be traded n B tc co n market or other markets over
stock markets.

B tc co n may be used as a fast and secure tool for the purpose of perform ng
payment serv ces over crypto payment systems.

1

2. INTRODUCTION
B tc co n - B tc cha n V s on and M ss on
B tc cha n, that s a product of B tc Teknoloj , s des gned for ensur ng fast and easy
trans t on of compan es and nst tut ons to blockcha n technology. It a ms to meet
the requests of compan es n d fferent areas and sectors for suppl er cha n
mon tor ng, smart contracts (Dapps), brand tokens, fan tokens, loyalty tokens,
payment tokens over block-cha n.

B tc Technology a ms that each token project that t developed for the compan es
are valuable for compan es as well as users that make nvestments and use that
token. The most s gn ﬁcant property of B tc cha n that d ffers t from other
blockcha ns s that t allows all compan es who beneﬁt from blockcha n serv ces to
use the ecosystem t owns. Company tokens may be used as payment nstrument
or a traded d g tal asset over B tc .com stock market ntegrat on and B tc pay
payment platform.

The tokens that are developed by B tc Technology for compan es and nst tut ons
may be l sted on B tc .com stock market, B tc co n market. Th s way, t s a med to
ncrease the value of the B tc co n, that s the co n of B tc cha n network, wh ch s
an nvestment tool, n l ne w th the projects performed over the network and the
success of these projects.

2

3. BITCI ECOSYSTEM
B tc cha n s the ﬁrst blockcha n network of Turkey that has an extens ve
ecosystem. It s poss ble to nstantaneously perform transfers of B tc co n and all
tokens and co ns used n system n both between the user wallets and users of
B tc cha n platforms w th the ntegrat on of stock market and payment platform.

b tc teknoloj .com
b tc .com
b tc cha n.com
b tc pay.com

BITCI EXCHANGE
FIRST AND ONLY REALIZED AND UNREALIZED
PROFIT/LOSS MONITORING IN THE WORLD
• FIRST PRO VERSION WEBSITE IN TURKEY
• 3 DIFFERENT MARKETS (TRY/CHFT/BTC)
• FIRST PRO VERSION CAPITAL MARKET APPLICATION OF TURKEY

BITCICHAIN
BITCICOIN
BITCIWALLET
BITCIEXPLORER
BRAND / FAN TOKEN
FIRST BLOCKCHAIN SOLUTION AND CRYPTO CURRENCY OF TURKEY THAT OFFERS BLOCKCHAIN
SOLUTIONS TO COMPANIES, INTEGRATED WITH CAPITAL MARKET AND PAYMENT PLATFORM

BITCIPAY
MAKE YOUR PAYMENTS OR RECEIVE YOUR PAYMENT SIN TURKISH LIRA WITH CRYPTO CURRENCIES.

3

3. BITCI ECOSYSTEM
3.1 - Bitci.com Crypto Currency Trading Platform
B tc .com, wh ch s establ shed
by B tc Technology n 2018, s a
crypto currency trad ng
platform that has certa n ﬁrsts
n the World. All stock markets
developed up to today were
exam ned and the deﬁc enc es
thereof were determ ned by the
software eng neers, expert n
the r areas and managers expert n crypto currency trad ng of B tc Technology and
all of t was coded by the software eng neers of B tc Technology by tak ng nto
account the user behav ors and needs.
Also, t prov des wh telable cap tal market serv ce to the whole world through USA
or g nated CED (Crypto Exchange Developer) ﬁrm, owned by B tc Technology.
B tc .com s the ﬁrst and only crypto currency trad ng platform n the world that has
the portfol o property that nstantaneously shows pr vate real zed and unreal zed
proﬁt-loss graph cs. The Users may nstantaneously v ew the proﬁt-loss rates of the
trades they perform over “Real zed loss-proﬁt” screen and the r pend ng crypto
currency nvestments n the r wallets over “Unreal zed proﬁt-loss” screen w th
compar ng them to the currency rates on the day of nvestment, nstead of
mon tor ng the transact ons they made n the past over “transact on h story.”
B tc .com s a crypto currency trad ng platform that offers the ﬁrst enhanced
nterface to ts users n Turkey w th nstantaneous potent al ncome nd cators,
nstantaneous real zed and unreal zed proﬁt-loss tables, profess onal charts and
nd cators. Advanced propert es such as co n-pr ce graph c system that shows
market depth, advanced d fferent t me un ts allow the nvestors to take
nstantaneous nvestment dec s ons faster and more accurate.

4

3. BITCI ECOSYSTEM
3.2 B tc cha n
B tc ha n s the ﬁrst blockcha n network of Turkey that s ntegrated w th stock
market and payment platform, wh ch s developed by B tc Technology software
eng neers. Supply cha n mon tor ng can be performed over B tc cha n wh le
smart contracts, brand tokens, loyalty tokens and fan tokens may be produced.

B tc cha n s a blockcha n network des gned for compan es. B tc cha n also makes
th s technology understandable wh le ensur ng blockcha n trans t on of
compan es and a ms for the compan es and nst tut ons to ﬁnd a respondent 24/7
related to any techn cal ssue they face.

3.3 B tc co n
Blockcha n co n of B tc cha n s B tc co n and t s open for trade on B tc .com stock
market. The project tokens developed for Compan es by B tc Technology over
B tc cha n network may be traded over B tc .com markets. The value of B tc co n
depends on the projects over B tc cha n network and s a payment nstrument that
may be used over B tc Pay payment platform.

5

3. BITCI ECOSYSTEM
3.4 B tc E-Wallet
It s a personal zed web-based B tc co n wallet of B tc cha n blockcha n network.
Wh le B tc co n may be kept at B tc e-wallet, t s also poss ble to keep the tokens
developed for company and nst tut ons over B tc cha n.

3.5 B tc Explorer
It s the blockcha n browser that allows mon tor ng of B tc cha n, the records of
transact ons made over blockcha n network, data such as block row as transparent,
but anonym zed.

3.6 B tc Pay
It s the ﬁrst payment nfrastructure of Turkey that
allows payment over Turk sh L ra w th crypto
currency. It allows ts users to make Turk sh L ra
payment from crypto currenc es at the B tc Pay
payment po nts nstantaneously.

The users may make payment n crpyto currency
and the seller may accept rece v ng Turk sh L ra or
crpyto currency payments as per ts d scret on.

B tc Pay may use the brand, fan, loyalty and
payment tokens created for compan es over
B tc cha n blockcha n as a payment tool that may be
converted to Turk sh L ra over B tc Pay payment
system n l ne w th the agreements of the company
and nst tut ons w th B tc Technology.

6

4. SOLUTIONS OFFERED BY BITCICHAIN
B tc cha n blockcha n network offers blockcha n solut ons ta lored to compan es w th
the ﬁrst blockcha n nfrastructure of Turkey ntegrated to the market and payment
platform. These solut ons are brand token, fan token, supply cha n mon tor ng, loyalty
token and smart contracts.

4.1 Brand Tokens
B tc Technology may create spec al brand tokens ta lored to ﬁrms and nst tut ons
over B tc cha n blockcha n network. The brand tokens are nvestment tools that
may be obta ned by users of that company. They are offered w th the terms and
cond t ons determ ned by the Company. It w ll generate ncome to ts nvestor on
B tc .com or other crypto trad ng platforms that they are l sted n l ne w th the
agreements conducted by and project progress of the company. Brand token s
the d g tal asset of a company on blockcha n.

4.2 Fan Tokens
B tc Technology may create fan tokens for
sports clubs over B tc cha n blockcha n
network. The most mportant project that
d ffers B tc Technology fan tokens from s m lar
projects s that they are real tokens that are
wr tten on B tc cha n blockcha n network.
D fferent from s m lar projects, they may be
traded n l ne w th the agreements over hotcold phys cal wallet, trad ng platforms w thout
be ng bound to a closed ecosystem.

7

4. SOLUTIONS OFFERED BY BITCICHAIN
The following are the primary areas of use of fan tokens designed for sports
clubs and fans;
• Commonly, fans do not rece ve a correspondence when they prov de mater al
support to the r teams. B tc cha n fan token a ms to completely change th s
understand ng. The fan w ll be ent tled to rece ve the fan token of h s/her teams n
return of a mater al support he/she prov des.

• Thanks to the Fan Token App developed by the B tc Teknoloj software team and
exclus ve to the sports club, the fan tokens w ll ncrease the commun cat on
between the team and the fan, as well as enable the fan to have a say n the
dec s ons of the team. He/she can watch spec al events and contents made by
h s/her team. He/she can buy h s/her team's products on the Fan Token App.

• Fan tokens are nvestment tools, after pre-sales, they are opened on the B tc .com
crypto currency trad ng platform and become a d g tal asset that can be traded for
the supporters who support the r team. Its value ncreases or decreases n l ne w th
the success of the team.

• Fan tokens are payment nstruments that can nstantly convert to Turk sh L ra at
all contracted po nts us ng the B tc Pay payment platform after they are started to
be traded on B tc .com crypto currency trad ng platform.

8

4. SOLUTIONS OFFERED BY BITCICHAIN
4.3 Supplier Chain Monitoring
B tc Technology has developed a supply cha n mon tor ng system for compan es
that can be recorded on the B tc cha n blockcha n. It can be used as a transparent,
secure record ng and mon tor ng system thanks to the features offered by the
blockcha n nfrastructure n all appl cat ons requ r ng supply cha n track ng n
sectors such as electr c ty supply cha n, supermarket supply cha n and nvolv ng
mult ple compan es.

4.4 Loyalty Tokens
B tc Technology can create loyalty tokens on the B tc cha n blockcha n for
compan es. Bus nesses can g ve these tokens to the r users as a reward, d scount or
prepa d. Thanks to the d g tal wallet appl cat on to be made personal zed to the
bus ness by B tc Technology, users can use the r reward, d scount or prepa d tokens
at the cash reg sters or onl ne, as well as bus nesses can collect the shopp ng hab ts
and shopp ng deta ls of the users through the d g tal wallet appl cat on and use
them to personal ze the campa gns and d scounts.

9

4. SOLUTIONS OFFERED BY BITCICHAIN
4.5 Smart Contracts
One of the best example of smart contracts s beverage vend ng mach nes. If a
certa n amount of payment s made, t w ll check the accuracy of the payment and
g ve you a beverage. Smart contracts can be created wh ch w ll develop effect ve, fast
and secure solut ons for every su table sector on the B tc cha n blockcha n network.

Import and export transact ons are carr ed out through nformant banks today. The
nformant nst tut on, wh ch conﬁrms the accuracy of the products sent n mport
and export and that they reach the address, makes the payment accord ngly. W th
the ver ﬁcat on of product accuracy and del very n a smart contract to be made on
the blockcha n, payments can be tr ggered automat cally and no nformant
superv s on s requ red. Th s speeds up the whole mport and export process
accord ngly.

Blockcha n-based smart contracts nfrastructure can be developed by B tc
Technology on the B tc cha n blockcha n network to accelerate the nformant
approval mechan sm, espec ally n procurement, log st cs, and to make t more
secure and traceable.

10

5. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
Approval System
Proof of Authority (POA)

Blockchain Explorer
bitciexp.bitcichain.com

Wallet Service
wallet.bitcichain.com

Node Program
A fully functioning Full node PC program (TR) Web / Android / iOS
clients that do not need to synchronize with the blockchain (TR)

Smart Contract Compiler
C# / VB.Net / F#, Visual Studio Java / Kotlin, Eclipse
C / C++ / GO
JavaScript / TypeScript Python / Ruby

11

6. BITCICOIN
Distributed through campaigns:

100.000.000 (Hundred Million)
Software Development

1.900.000.000 (One Billion Nine Hundred Million)
Ads and Promotions

6.000.000.000 (Six Billion)
Software Development

12.000.000.000 (Twelve Billion)

Total Amount:

100.000.000.000 (Hundred Billion)
Toplam Supply

20.000.000.000 (Twenty Billion)
* The total quantity supplied
will be increased by 1.000.000.000 (One Billion) each year.

6.1 Income Model
B tc co n s the ma n co n of B tc cha n network. The value of the token projects
performed and w ll be performed over B tc cha n network determ ne the value of
B tc co n.

B tc cha n projects are also d g tal assets traded on the B tc co n market, and
transact ons are made on a platform that can compete w th B tc co n. The purpose
here s to ncrease the usab l ty and funct onal ty of B tc co n, to ncrease ts volume
and value.

12

6. BITCICOIN
6.2 Approval System
Proof of Author ty (PoA) s an algor thm that offers a more ﬂex ble blockcha n
consensus mechan sm as an alternat ve to Proof of Work and Proof of Stake,
performs better n terms of transact on capac ty per second, and prov des a
consensus mechan sm based on the reputat on of the val dator tself.

In Proof-of-Author ty-based networks, transact ons and blocks are val dated by
val dated accounts known as "val dators". Val dators run software that enables
transact ons n blocks. Th s process works automat cally and val dators do not need
to constantly check the r computers. However, the computer, the author ty node,
must rema n uncomprom sed. To be a val dator, people need to earn and deserve t
and ma nta n the pos t on they have earned. Val dators are encouraged to support
the transact on process by add ng a reputat on to the r dent ty.

On the other hand, Proof of Author ty only allows any non-consecut ve block
conﬁrmat on from any val dator. PoA s a h ghly su table algor thm n terms of
rel ab l ty and performance for pr vate networks and publ c networks such as PoA
networks where secur ty s mportant.

6.3 Secur ty
Proof of Author ty s an algor thm that s used w th blockcha n technology and that
prov des a consensus mechan sm based on the dent ty of a share for perform ng
rather fast transact ons. The secur ty mechan sm cont nues to strengthen tself
w th the ncrease n the number of shares n the approval mechan sm. All project
owners on B tc cha n are ent tled to be a consensus partner and contr bute to
ensur ng network secur ty.

13

7. DATA SECURITY
The process ng of B tc co n user data w ll be performed n accordance w th the Law
on Protect on of Personal Data No.6698 and the relevant leg slat on (“KVKK”)
together w th the General Data Protect on Regulat on, to the extent appl cable.
B tc attaches max mum mportance to the pr vacy and data secur ty of ts users
and meets the leg slat ve requ rements regard ng the protect on of personal data.
All personal data obta ned from users are stored on servers access ble v a VPN
connect on and cannot be accessed n any way by th rd part es except author zed
persons.

B tc securely stores the data prov ded by our users for the per od spec ﬁed n the
relevant leg slat on and takes all necessary measures to prevent unauthor zed
access or collect on of the nformat on shared by you, as requ red by the KVKK and
appl cable leg slat on.

14

8. ROADMAP

2020
JANUARY (COMPLETED)
BITCICOIN BLOCKCHAIN TEST NETWORK
BITCI TEST EXPLORER
BITCI TEST WALLET

MARCH (COMPLETED)
MAIN NETWORK COMMENCEMENT v1.0

APRIL (COMPLETED)
BITCI EXCHANGE
FIAT / BTC / CHFT MARKET LISTING

AUGUST (COMPLETED)
BITCICHAIN v2.0

SEPTEMBER (COMPLETED)
BITCIPAY INTEGRATION

DECEMBER (COMPLETED)
FAN TOKEN CREATING AND
MOBILE APPLICATION (KARŞIYAKA)

15

8. YOL
8.
ROADMAP
HARİTASI

2021
JANUARY
BITCICOIN TRADE MARKET

APRIL
BITCI MOBILE WALLET (ANDROID - IOS)

JULY
BITCI WALLET 2.0 (ANDROID - IOS)
BITCOIN - ETHEREUM - XRP ETC. COIN MAINTAINING OPPORTUNITY

OCTOBER
CAPITAL MARKET LISTING
LISTING IN A CAPITAL MARKET OUTSIDE BITCI EXCHANGE

NOVEMBER
BITCISPORT APPLICATION
INSTANT MESSAGE APP
BUSINESS CARD APP
BITCI HOTEL
BITCI FOOD

DECEMBER
BITCI AUTHENTICATOR
2FA AUTHENTICATOR APPLICATION

16

9. BITCICOIN TEAM
The B tc co n team plays an mportant role n plann ng, develop ng and
mplement ng our v s on for the products and serv ces we offer. Our company has a
transparency, nnovat on and autonomy wh ch supports d vers ty among team
members and enhances our development. B tc co n found ng team has a preex st ng knowledge of nternet technology, onl ne serv ces and bank ng, and
exper ence n blockcha n technology, open ﬁnance, des gn and software
development. Found ng member Çağdaş Çağlar s an exper enced entrepreneur
and bus nessman who has been work ng n blockcha n ecosystem, end user
products, construct on, energy and many sectors for many years.

B tc co n team s establ shed of a decentral zed structure where the respons b l t es
are d str buted between d fferent levels of the company. It cons sts of people who
come from software eng neer ng, project management, bus ness development,
bank ng and ﬁnance compl ance nfrastructure.

B tc Teknoloj A.Ş. s supported by a strong adv sory board w th exper ence n
nternet platforms, end user products, des gn and software development,
cryptocurrenc es and blockcha n technology. Our team works together w th
profess onal and academ c organ zat ons cons st ng of Turk sh bus ness people,
blockcha n academ cs, ﬁnanc al consultants and entrepreneurs.

17

9. BITCICOIN TEAM

CEO
ÇAĞDAŞ ÇAĞLAR

COO
ONUR ALTAN TAN

CFO
METEHAN KARADAN

CMO
YAPRAK GÖKÇE

CSO
ÇAĞRI SİSMAN

CTO
CENK DEMİR

DEVELOPER
YİĞİT ŞİRİN

UI-UX
EMRE BORAN

18

10. OTHER INFORMATION AND UPDATES
B tc cha n team w ll per od cally update th s
report to reﬂect the techn cal, commerc al and
soc al developments related to our project.

All updates w ll be announced on the webs te,
soc al med a platforms and our telegram
channel.

www.b tc cha n.com
nfo@b tc cha n.com
t.me/b tc com
facebook.com/B tc Cha n
tw tter.com/B tc Cha n
nstagram.com/b tc cha n

+90 444 60 66
B tc Teknoloj A.Ş. Ortakent Yahş Mah. Hortma Cad. 9 Bodrum / Muğla 48400

19

11. LEGAL NOTICE
SINCE IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION, WE RECOMMEND THAT YOU READ THIS
DISCLAIMER CAREFULLY AND IF NECESSARY TO CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX
OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANTS.
As ncluded n B tc co n and Wh tepaper, none of the features and appl cat ons n the
B tc co n ecosystem (collect vely "B tc co n") a m to be accepted as a secur ty asset n any
jur sd ct on and s a secur ty offer ng, as well as to collect a demand for secur t es
nvestment. Wh tepaper, wh ch conta ns techn cal and operat onal nformat on about
B tc co n, does not conta n nvestment adv ce and s not a legal offer.
Wh tepaper does not const tute a legally b nd ng contract or legal comm tment for e ther
B tc co n or the B tc co n creator ("Company"). Any transact on related to the trad ng of
B tc co n w ll only be val d after s gn ng the agreements to be prepared by the Company
and the subm tt ng other necessary documents ("F nal Documents"). If there s a conﬂ ct
between the F nal Documents and the Wh tepaper, the regulat ons n the F nal
Documents w ll be appl ed.
Regardless of the jur sd ct on, no regulatory or adm n strat ve author ty or government has
rev ewed or approved the B tco n structure or any nformat on spec ﬁed n th s Wh tepaper.
The publ cat on of the wh tepaper may not be regulated n the leg slat on n force n the
relevant jur sd ct ons, or t may const tute a v olat on of the current leg slat on. Due to the
d fferent mplementat on of crypto currency and blockcha n technology n jur sd ct ons
and other technolog cal developments, B tc co n, as n all crypto currency appl cat ons,
poses a legal h gh r sk and uncerta nty as well as ts return potent al. The n t at ve and
respons b l ty to evaluate and nvest these r sks belongs to you. In add t on, any part or copy
of th s Wh tepaper should not be taken or transferred to any country where the sale or
d str but on of th s Wh tepaper or B tc co n s proh b ted or restr cted.

In part cular you are proh b ted from purchas ng B tc co n f you are ( ) a c t zen, res dent of
the Un ted States of Europe (“USA”) or a green card holder and, pursuant to US leg slat on,
you are not el g ble to become an "accred ted nvestor" or ( ) f you are a c t zen or res dent
of the People's Republ c of Ch na, or ( ) f you are a c t zen or res dent of a US sanct oned
country.
20

11. LEGAL NOTICE
To the w dest extent perm tted by the current leg slat on, B tc co n, the Company, the
Company's board of d rectors, stakeholders, employees, contractors, consultants or
afﬁl ates do not g ve any guarantees or comm tments regard ng the forecasts and
project ons conta ned n the Wh tepaper, and does not accept any respons b l ty for the
currency and accuracy of the nformat on conta ned here n or for Wh tepaper n general.
Based on th s, the Company reserves the r ght to change the nformat on on the
Wh tepaper at any t me.

Th s Wh tepaper may conta n prospect ve statements regard ng B tc co n act v t es and
project ons that have not yet been real zed. Such prospect ve statements may d ffer
s gn ﬁcantly from future results, performance or ach evements w th regard to B tc co n.

In the l ght of the above explanat ons, you accept that you are solely respons ble for any
damages you w ll suffer from Wh tepaper, B tc co n or n connect on w th them ( nclud ng
but not l m ted to loss of ncome or proﬁt, usage or data loss), that B tc co n, Company,
Company board members, stakeholders, employees, contractors, consultants or afﬁl ates
have no respons b l ty regard ng these requests and damages.

Th s Wh tepaper s subject to the leg slat on of the Republ c of Turkey. All d sputes
regard ng the wh tepaper w ll be resolved ult mately and exclus vely by Istanbul (Anatol an)
courts and enforcement ofﬁces.

21

