With the advent of blockchain technology in the early 2000’s the world has been
watching, excited to see what becomes of it. Most notably Bitcoin has captured
everyone’s attention as being a currency that operates on the blockchain but other
communities have sprung up in its wake. While Bitcoin serves its own purpose, the core
technology of the blockchain can be extended to be more secure and advanced. That's
where DigitalNote comes in.

DigitalNote is a robust Proof-of-Work/Proof-of-Stake hybrid blockchain with instant
untraceable transactions and highly secure encrypted messaging features at its core.
Innovative and forward-thinking, the network is resistant to the 51% attacks that plague
other cryptocurrencies (via its VRX v3.0 technology) and it is mobile-ready with
lightweight wallet functionality. DigitalNote is decentralized and competitive with a
Masternode network that enhances untraceability and provides incentive for users to
secure the network, while enabling instant private transactions and P2P messaging that
are impossible to trace or censor. Miners and stakers are encouraged to participate via
network fee payouts, causing consistent block generation and ensuring a lightning fast
network overall. This document is intended to describe in detail the different systems
that the DigitalNote project employs and how they operate in unison to provide the end
user of any community a seamless and intuitive experience.

1

Supply cap: 10,000,000,000 XDN
Consensus: Proof-of-Work + Proof-of-Stake
PoW algorithm: bmw512 (Wish) - ASIC resistant
PoS algorithm: Echo512 - ASIC resistant
Block time target: 2 minutes
Minimum enforced block spacing: 45 seconds
Maximum block spacing (soft limit): 3.17 minutes
Confirmations required to spend: 15
Masternode collateral: 2,000,000 XDN
Block reward: 300 XDN (PoW + PoS + dev allocation)
Block reward split: 250 XDN PoW + PoS see-saw, 50 XDN dev allocation
Difficulty retarget: VRX v3.0 w/ hybrid chain swing
CodeBase origins: BTC 0.11 reference source + custom XDN features (dynamic
max-block sizes, MN/Network payout see-saw, dev allocation, velocity blockchain
constraint system) + DASH features (Darksend, InstantTX, messaging, masternodes)
Masternode swing base: 100 XDN/block
Masternode swing peak: 200 XDN/block
Network swing base: 150 XDN/block
Network swing peak: 50 XDN/block
Emissions swing:
Incremental step: 20% step
Interval: 30 blocks
Step per interval: 1 step
Steps per swing: 5 steps (up or down)
Epoch (see-saw finish): 15 intervals
Upswing duration: 5 intervals
Downswing duration: 5 intervals
Idle duration: 5 intervals (no adjustment)

2

Supply Cap: The maximum coin supply is estimated to be reached ~25 years after
launch around 2044, with a variance depending on how many coins are burned after
the swap period ends. Once the maximum coin supply is reached, the XDN system
will only pay network fees to the participants of the blockchain’s emissions ensuring
an exact cap of 10 billion XDN to ever exist.

Coin Burn: Users have about 6 months to swap their XDN from the old codebase to
the current one. Funds that have not been swapped from the old codebase within
the swap period will be "burned", thus lowering the circulating supply of XDN.

Reserve Blocks: Initially the DigitalNote team mined what are known as “reserve
blocks” in order to generate the proper amount of coins needed for the swap from
the old XDN codebase to the current one (specifically 80,000,000 XDN per block for
blocks 2-102). By doing so users are able to retain their balance from the previous
blockchain project and move onto a more secure and stable codebase. A small
portion of this was saved into a DigitalNote project fund in order to complete the
XDN v2.0 upgrade successfully, ensure future exchange listings and allow for future
expansions and features.

Block Reward Split: A portion of the network paid emissions (50XDN/block) is sent
to a developer team address to support DigitalNote team members directly so that
they may continue development and be compensated for their work.

3

“P2P encrypted messages
are completely
anonymous, private and
uncensorable.”

Approaching the secure/private messaging system is a daunting task as there are many
implementation references floating and many schools of thought on proper
implementation and functionality of this sort of feature. For the DigitalNote system we
went with simplicity and effectiveness by using a Dash reference private message
system, which will soon reincorporate the legacy XDN self-destruct feature, allowing
users to force their messages to become deleted from both the sender and recipient’s
history and data all together.

In addition to this the XDN method relays messages directly using p2p (peer-to-peer)
protocol by first sending the message data through an encryption method, much like
how blocks are encrypted on the blockchain itself, and then relaying them through the
p2p protocol. The recipient then decrypts the message locally through the wallet/client
and is able to then read and/or reply to the message. The system is very flexible and
allows for further feature updates such as aliases and account registration on the
network if the user so opts. There is no “middle-man” or third party at any part of the
function of the private messaging so there is nothing to intercept or risk when relaying a

4

message to another party. Only the sender and the recipient using the proper
authentication keys can access the messages and once again if they are self-destructing
then in a designated period of time the message will eventually erase itself and cease to
ever exist entirely.

Encryption keys used by either the sender or recipient are stored in an encrypted file just
like the main wallet data file and require the wallet/client to properly load and unlock
these keys using the appropriate data file. Further security such as a passcode to lock
and unlock the messaging functionality in order to protect from possible equipment
compromise or other emergency situations are also a reality being able to plug right into
this system further improving user security and privacy with this system. If either data file
goes missing from the messaging system it will be automatically recreated however the
new one will be blank thus either erasing all previous normal messages (not including
self-destructed messages) or even rendering that receiving address/key lost forever
and inaccessible to any party. Storing and backing up this would of course be a wise
decision however for utmost security and privacy this system operates in such a manner.

In general this is a powerful and adaptive system that is a great solution to many
shortcomings of the way we currently communicate in the world.

5

"The network combines its
legacy CryptoNote ring
signature obfuscation
with coin mixing."

Obfuscating and overall concealing transaction source and destination has always been
a big aspect of blockchain technology for quite some time now. From CryptoNote
codebases which are designed solely for this type of method but execute it poorly to
such projects as Dash and PIVX to name a couple that have provided attempts at
creating a solution to this.

DigitalNote’s execution of this type of feature is to utilize Dash’s protocol and improve
upon it from there similarly to the previously discussed messaging feature. The reason
behind this is that overall the system is a good base point. It works by first having a
“pool” of available denominated coins that users have configured using their wallets and
are shuffled around in order to conceal their original source. Next when a user utilizes
the feature the transaction undergoes what’s known as mixing. Mixing then does as the
name suggests and mixes the transaction up through the Masternode system utilizing
denominated coins thus making tracking either difficult or near impossible. This method
of course is not perfect as a very determined individual or entity could, using custom
software and advanced systems, be able to track through the mixing process and

6

eventually find where the transaction was either sent from or to despite using this type
of feature.

A solution to this is to incorporate the way that CryptoNote codebases had done utilizing
ring signatures to properly obfuscate the transaction further beyond what conventional
mixing and denominated coin balances can do. By putting these two systems together
XDN will effectively create a “best of both worlds” scenario where the transaction
cannot be tracked by any party no matter how determined they are. Both recipient and
sender remain anonymous and unknown. Of course if the user so desires they may send
a “clearnet” transaction in which case the transaction is not put through such a rigorous
and complex process but instead simply relayed directly across the network. Legacy
CryptoNote ring signatures for obfuscation will be reincorporated and combined with
coin mixing soon. That being said XDN’s standard method of sending is through the
Dark or anonymous sending rather than clearnet as that has been the project’s main
aspiration since its inception.

Going beyond just security and privacy for the senders this solution also provides a
hands off approach for the operators of masternodes or even the controlling party of the
project as no one has the encryption keys for any user and they are never stored on any
system other than the user’s own. Making this secure, private, robust and simply a
fantastic solution to currently lacking implementations.

7

"DigitalNote takes a
proactive approach
to 51% attacks,
eliminating them"

A 51% attack refers to an attack on a blockchain by a group of miners controlling more
than 50% of the network's mining hashrate. The attackers could then prevent new
transactions from confirming and reverse transactions that were completed during the
attack, allowing them to halt payments on the network and attempt double-spends. In
the past a 51% attack was considered more of a hypothetical attack, but the popularity
and wealth of cryptocurrencies has made this type of attack a serious reality for all
cryptocurrencies that do not actively develop systems to fend them off. There are
various ways to combat 51% attacks and the DigitalNote network deploys multiple
strategies together to help ensure the security of the protocol.

The first quality of the network that protects it from 51% attacks is the fact that
DigitalNote is secured by Proof-of-Work and also Proof-of-Stake. That means that by
the very nature of this setup, not only must an attacker have 51% of the hashrate but
they must also have 51% of the total amount of coins to be able to attempt such an
attack. While that is highly unlikely in itself, there is also another set of systems that
adds an additional layer of security verses 51% attacks.

8

Terminal Velocity RateX (VRX v3.0) balances the difficulty levels of the network so that
neither Proof-of-Work miners nor Proof-of-Stake users have an advantage over the
other. This system ensures that neither block type can overpower the other and both
miners and stakers can benefit the blockchain equally, eliminating either as a potential
51% attack vector. VRX also ensures a narrow window around the desired block target
(while still allowing for some variance) via it's velocity blockchain constraint system,
essentially eliminating timestamp attacks. To learn more about the DigitalNote VRX
v3.0 difficulty retargeting algorithm please read the detailed technical section
dedicated to it.

Many other coins (including Bitcoin & Ethereum) are open to 51% attacks. DigitalNote
takes a proactive approach, eliminating them. The wallet also verifies the entire
incoming block before ever storing it to your disk, checking the stake difficulty and
other parameters to make sure that a 51% attack is impossible.

9

“Masternodes enhance
untraceability and provide
incentive for users to
secure the network.”

Masternodes are essentially service handlers that process additional feature data for
the blockchain without compromising security by forcing a verified collateral lock of a
specific amount of XDN coins to run/operate. The lock is verified by the masternode
launching protocol and then the Masternode is registered to the network and begins
relaying data. This system ensures that the security and flexibility of the DigitalNote
project and blockchains in general is not lost once again strengthening the overall
network.

The way a Masternode functions is by having a participant register themselves on the
network as an additional data processor allowing them to store/relay additional data
that is then used to provide additional chain features such as InstanTX and Darksend.
Similarly to the standard transaction protocol, a Masternode requires a persistent
internet connection and penalizes any participant that consistently disconnects to avoid
inconsistent connections or any possible hang-ups in service provided to end users. The
longer that a user participates in the system the higher their chance become of being
part of the compensated Masternodes which are automatically voted on by the network

10

depending on reliability and data processed. A participating user must then also lock the
specific collateral amount, as mentioned previously in the Rewards and Consensus
section, which will effectively become frozen as the participant will no longer be able to
use them in any way until they are unlocked from the Masternode and in doing so have
the balance act as a held collateral while the Masternode owner is compensated
periodically for the data processed by their Masternode. Of course the payouts are not
consistent and users should not expect a reward every block as the network will not
always be selecting the same Masternode as a winner. Users may also force unlock
their locked collateral amount instantly unregistering their activated Masternode from
the network. A more proper method would be for the user to simply, using the system
interface or RPC commands, first turn off their Masternode and then wait a short while
for the network to unregister it normally and then unlock their coins.

A locked balance will not be able to find the next block in the chain however any coins
generated by the network is then taken and a portion of it is sent to the winning
Masternode vote. Winning is determined by many factors that the chain automatically
votes on such as network latency, time online, data processed, and so on. Voting on the
network in this manner is crucial to ensuring the most helpful and critical Masternodes
are rewarded first and more often than ones that do not provide a good, reliable service.
The network payout split of the miner/staker and the winning Masternode swings
between which is dominantly receiving rewards by using a mathematical seesaw which
calculates a swinging curve both up and then back down in what’s called a cycle. Two
cycles are then called an epoch which counts a completed seesaw between dominant
network payout. Epochs then infinitely repeat in predefined intervals allowing the chain
to forever have this smooth fluctuating payout scheme.

11

This “SeeSaw” is designed to generate both holder and mining/staking interest as the
network swings between which is being compensated more and overall keeping things
interesting as opposed to a static reward system. The system also prevents possible
abuse of payout types leveling the field between the two receiving parties. By aiming to
be more dynamic not only can further user interest be stimulated but also a level of
security is added and sense of balance between network participants

12

"The XDN PoW/PoS hybrid
system makes the network
2x as secure."

DigitalNote uses a Proof-Of-Work/Proof-Of-Stake (PoW/PoS) hybrid blockchain which
directly affects how the system handles block production and stimulates interest in
doing so while bolstering security and the protection from a 51% attack which still
haunts many current projects.

Proof-Of-Work or (PoW) as it’s often referred to, is the most notable consensus method
as it’s also the most common among blockchain projects since its use in Bitcoin. PoW
functions by having participants contribute computing power in a form known as “hash”
or “hashing” in reference to the process of creating a block of the blockchain.
Participants are rewarded for correctly submitted blocks that are accepted by the
blockchain/network and then confirmed as the block ages ensuring subsequent
generation (mining) of future blocks by keeping participants interested. Furthermore
multiple participants typically pool together their resources by using a “mining pool”, as
opposed to normally competing against each other, service allowing even those with
little computing power to be able to receive compensation for what they do provide
rather than attempting to beat an entity with considerably more hashing power. This

13

distribution method falls short of perfect though as it is possible to attack the
blockchain by controlling what information is in the blocks being mined and submitted.
These are known as “bad blocks” which are blocks with invalid information that would
normally not be accepted even possibly splitting the blockchain into two versions of
itself (forking) that then compete for network validity and acceptance when an entity
has the ability to compute with massive amounts of power that the majority do not have
access to.

Proof-Of-Stake or (PoS) for short is a newer method of block generation, however
arguably one of the more secure methods of distribution though not as readily
available to newcomers just climbing on board a community/project. This is because
PoS uses the coins that a participant owns and is holding to generate a block, thus
owning more coins and staking them provides the participant with a higher possibility of
generating the next block. Staking is the act of allowing one’s wallet/client to remain
online in order to support the network by having randomly selected coins become
temporarily unavailable while the wallet/client forges a block and then compensates
the participant with an earned interest on the coins used. The longer one has owned
their coins the more “weight” they accumulate and the higher their chances of forging
the next block, once the block is found the coin’s weight is reset to allow for other
participants a chance of also mining a block. This method is considered more secure as
if properly distributed the participants will invalidate most any form of attack that
abuses hashing power in order to gain control of a blockchain, however one must first
obtain coins in order to stake which depending on their worth can be costly and overall
a deterrent to the project if this is the only method available.

14

PoW/PoS Hybrid, known typically as just a “hybrid” distribution method, shuffles both
PoW and PoS together onto a singular blockchain. Hybrid systems are still relatively
new, as few blockchains employ a robust enough difficulty algorithm which adjusts the
time span between generated blocks for either PoW or PoS and in this case both in
unison. A custom difficulty retarget algorithm known as “VRX” was created for
DigitalNote in order to allow for proper shuffling of generated block types within a full
hybrid blockchain. By doing so the security of DigitalNote is substantially increased as
PoW and PoS complement each other’s shortcomings, allowing the blockchain
significant edge over one operating singularly on a particular method, almost
completely negating the possibility of a 51% attack.

15

"VRX v3.0 balances PoW
and PoS while also
securing the network
against attacks."

VRX or Terminal Velocity RateX is a blockchain difficulty retarget system that, using a
several block depth scan, quickly adapts the implemented blockchain/altcoin's mining
or staking difficulty levels to ensure a narrow window around the desired block time.
Allowing of course for some inconsistencies in block spacing due to significant
increases or decreases in hashrate/staking depending on whether the blockchain is
Proof-Of-Work based, Proof-Of-Stake or Hybrid, the VRX system ensures that blocks
are generated at a consistently even pace. Furthermore for Hybrid blockchains the
blocks are properly shuffled in a 50/50 ratio allowing both consensus types an even
chance.

Simply put VRX indexes a previous set amount of blocks (typical reference
implementations are set to the previous six blocks) and then compares each of them
against one another in relation to their block times thus determining a set spacing
between those blocks. The system then takes the determined block spacing and
compares it against desired block spacing in what is called “Check Round”. This check
round is similar to the other retarget systems available but adjusts on a different curve

16

which adapts quickly to large changes in the hashrate of the blockchain, also making
sure to not adjust too much so as not to "stall" the blockchain. There is one check round
per pair of blocks indexed so using a six block count index depth VRX will yield five
check rounds. After VRX runs through its checks it then determines whether it should
change the difficulty either up or down depending whether the desired block time was
overshot or rushed, the severity of which is limited to a maximum of doubling the
previous block difficulty or halving it. Finally an average is calculated between the
different pair of difficulty changes so that the most logical change in difficulty occurs
that best suits the blockchain and is then logged by the DigitalNote system.

Late versions of the VRX systems (such as the one used) feature a unique PoW/PoS
difficulty swing in which hybrid systems skew the difficulty on a curve in favor of the
less often found block type. Doing so ensures that neither one block type can win out
over the other one and both miners and stakers can benefit the blockchain equally. VRX
was designed to directly interact with DigitalNote’ Velocity block constraint system,
which is discussed at greater length in the next section. This is because no other
difficulty retarget method was compatible with it since the block difficulty plays an
important role within the Velocity system itself.

Overall this document's intention is provide a general understanding of what VRX is and
what it does. This VRX system will continue to evolve to become more robust and
overall an effective solution to the blockchain difficulty retarget problem.

17

VELOCITY BLOCKCHAIN CONSTRAINT SYSTEM

Velocity is a tertiary blockchain constraint system designed to ensure stringent block
checks and parameter enforcement. This system was designed as a modular/scalable
framework and over the years of its use has been expanded to include other check
types along with being planned for considerate new check implementation. Showing its
usefulness now in several different blockchain implementations Velocity is looking to
be a promising blockchain feature.

The key importance of Velocity is to constrain the chain with the parameters already
defined within the code as opposed to having aspects such as block spacing and other
properties act almost as a suggestion to the chain's operation rather than rule and law
so to speak. This is very important in the sense that sudden increase in hashrate or
possible attacks are still a vulnerability despite the best retarget systems out there
being implemented to control block spacing along with network fees, possible invalid
balance issues while sending transactions and other portions of the blockchain that are
enforced with a double check but still susceptible to an attack whether it be temporary
or a double spend that is confirmed and causes users of the network grief and loss
which is unacceptable.

This is done by the Velocity system being a "triple check", even after a block during
generation has seemingly met all requirements and is then produced it is now no longer
immediately accepted. Instead it is checked again for inconsistencies and possible
other exploits. Most notably users will see rejected blocks during the mining or minting
phase (or both depending on coin properties), despite the tendency to assume that

18

there is something wrong with the chain as it is rejecting blocks this is in fact a
completely normal and a welcomed operation.

Reasoning is that rapid block times, incorrect fees, insufficient balance, faked/altered
timestamps, altered inputs/outputs and other issues can be manipulated by a talented
programmer with malicious intent. To guard from these kinds of situations Velocity
checks the generated block against the chain parameters, first it Velocity checks the
block for proper spacing, if the block was generated too quickly it thus has not met one
of the main parameters for the chain and is promptly rejected, staving off possible
attacks and any kind of sudden increase in hashrate. Additionally to verifying block
spacing Velocity also checks both block timestamp and block transaction timestamp
against previously indexed values in order to verify the legitimacy of the timestamp
within a block. This is done at least a couple blocks or more deep to ensure timestamp
attacks are negated.

Next the system verifies that previously the client that sent a transaction (if it sent one in
the previous block) was in fact a valid transaction by comparing previous balance vs
current balance along with fees paid vs minimum fee required to pay. If any of these
parameters are not met (mind you these are standard chain parameters and nothing
outlandish) then the block is again rejected despite being generated successfully. Thus
this system secures the chain, making it more stable, predictable, and overall reliable,
instilling confidence that the blocks that are accepted are indeed blocks that are
proper.

19

Currently the biggest shortcoming is that this feature is still a prototype system and as
such doesn't intuitively integrate into every blockchain flawlessly. Some can experience
issues such as minimum spaced blocks with either min-diff or near min-diff being used
which is not an optimal operation of any sort. Next the transaction verification and
previous balance checks are currently turned off until such a time as the checks
become flawless, the implementation for these specific checks are still being
developed to properly assertain those sections of chain parameters. Hybrid blockchains
require a more intuitive difficulty retarget approach to reduce rejected blocks and
cause the system to properly generate blocks so that Velocity becomes not a life
support system but merely a security check to a stable and properly operating chain.
Users of a Velocity implemented chains may also note that several blockchains have
now been implemented with this feature, however the potential issues will not be
apparent in them because they are implemented with VRX difficulty retargeting which
pairs with Velocity's constraints and thus will not have the same issues listed above, in
this case they will see only the benefits of Velocity running as a security check merely
stabilizing the blockchain further and making it more robust.

Security Analysis
Miners may also be able to create automated cutoffs for the system so as to not waste
power while blocks are simply not accepted by the chain creating two possible exploits.
First that users with advanced mining systems may be able to effectively premine a
block during the time that the chain is not accepting blocks and withhold it from
submission until the minimum time has elapsed. If the system were to then employ a
security check that verifies the block’s timestamp to see if a miner had withheld a block
for submission another exploit would be to set a withheld block to be created with a

20

valid timestamp as long as the miner knew each valid time window. These two exploits
are resolved first by having the previously stated method of the system ensure the
block timestamp does not come from outside the allowed block window. This
discourages attacks by creating more steps for the attacker to go through before
having a chance of success. Next the VRX implementation penalizes minimum block
time, making the power required to maintain a possible attack (even with injecting a
valid timestamp) increase exponentially until after just a few generated blocks the
difficulty is so great that minimum time can no longer be achieved and another miner/
staker can simply find the next block. This quickly negates any possible progress in the
attack. Of course the Velocity system requires all parameters to be met and not simply
just block time in order to accept what appears to be a validly generated block.
The system can be expanded to include more verification and an even more stringent
implementation that may adapt to any kind of features that are added or removed. This
makes the DigitalNote system very adaptable and less of a hassle to work with as it can
grow with the coin and as it becomes more refined and mature so will this new security
feature called Velocity.

21

As a blockchain grows it becomes “heavier” in the sense that it continuously stores
information without regard to possible hardware or service limitations to the end user. In
order to circumvent such a concern for possible mobile users or users who simply cannot
store the entire chain either at that moment/ indefinitely it is important to offer an
alternative to what’s known as a “full” client. Standard or “full” clients by general practice
store and verify the entire blockchain which allows for significant redundancy and
support as community members/users use the system while a “Lightweight” or “Mobile
Blockchain” acts as an access portal, querying the blockchain and pulling data from it
more like a block browser rather than actually storing the system locally.

By not storing the majority of files locally the DigitalNote system can more readily be
used in full scale on a mobile device or by a user with limited network/storage capacities.
Though much of what makes this system lightweight is simply crawling the blockchain it
also of course has the capability to submit data to the blockchain to be processed in the
upcoming block with or without synchronizing the blockchain. Every system should allow
for customization by the user that is using it and as such the Lightweight/Mobile
Blockchain is also capable of synchronizing either partially or wholly. If the option is
selected, the system will synchronize from the last checkpoint and “assume” that
previous transactions reported by the chains hosted by nodes are valid. Another option is
to have a “quiet” full sync to run where after the semi-sync is completed from the last
checkpoint the client then begins synchronizing the rest of the blockchain silently in the
background allowing the user to still support the network completely at their discretion.

22

Another common shortcoming that many groups have attempted to overcome is block
size limitations. Either too small or too large can be problematic as one renders the chain
incapable of processing large batches of transactions within any kind of reasonable time
as the network effectively “queues” up and users are stuck waiting unknown amounts of
time to receive or send their coins while the other causes the chain to be possibly bloated
by having overly large block sizes available when there is no need for it. This can even
lead to such issues as stalled blockchains.

Employing what’s known as “Adaptive Block Sizes” the XDN blockchain itself
automatically calculates, within a size threshold, how large the maximum allowed block
size that it should be adjusted to and then sets this as the next allowed size for the
network to utilize. This is based off of network usage, the more the network is utilized the
more space is made available to the block size, while the less it is utilized the lower
amount of space is available to the block for generation size allowing for seamless
adaptability of the blockchain system to handle any kind of network load and
environment.

23

This whitepaper (document) is for informational purposes only, and not a binding
commitment. Do not rely on this information when interacting with DigitalNote coins as
ultimately the development and timing remains at the sole discretion of the
DigitalNote team.

We, the DigitalNote team, intend in no way harm of any kind to anyone in any shape or
form. There has never been a crowdsale of coins, presale or any other crowd funding
method used for the DigitalNote project or its developers. Please understand the risks
involved with cryptographic blockchain technology and their respective coins. The
DigitalNote team cannot be held responsible for any lost, stolen, or otherwise missing
funds of any kind. If you are unsure or have any doubt about this project we urge you
to NOT invest or become involved as this is a prototype technology system as stated
in numerous areas and to be used at your own risk.

Big thank you to all who helped make this project a reality, special thanks goes out to
the following community members (usernames) who have contributed to this
document’s creation and revisions:

AuCHRI
Coke Zero
CryptoCoderz
Kou

24

