SINOVATE : WHITEPAPER V2 Light Version
Table of Contents
SINOVATE : WHITEPAPER V2 Light Version

2

INTRODUCTION

3

OUR VIEW

4

2. OUR MISSION

5

3. FEATURES

5

3.1 NEW X25X ALGORITHM

6

3.2 PROOF OF BURN

7

3.3 SINOVATE INFINITY NODES

7

3.4 INFINITY NODES TIERS & REWARDS DISTRIBUTION

9

4. PRODUCTS & SERVICES
4.1 IDS PROTOCOL

10
11

4.1.1 DataStore

11

4.1.2 DataSend

11

4.2 PROOF OF INTEGRITY

SINOVATE DOCUMENT VERIFICATION S.D.V​.

12

12

4.3 R.S.V. Revolving Sovereignty Votes

14

4.4 SIN SYSTEM ECONOMY

15

4.5 INFINITY NODES SECURITY & ANONYMITY

17

4.5.1 What is FlashSend?

17

4.5.2 Why is FlashSend necessary?

17

5. DEVELOPMENT PROGRESS

18

5.1 INNOVATION

18

5.2 EXPERIENCE

19

6. SINOVATE USE CASES

19

7. BUSINESS STRATEGY

20

7.1 MARKETING STRATEGY

21

7.2 FINANCIAL CLARIFICATION & TRANSPARENCY

21

7.3 MILESTONES

22

7.4 SWOT ANALYSIS

23

7.5 ROADMAP

24

7.6 SINOVATE TEAM

30

7.7 SINOVATE MINING

33

7.8 MARKETING CHANNELS & PLATFORMS

36

7.9 References

37

Authors​:​ Christopher P. Thompson​, N
​ ick Moore​, ​Amit Kaushal​ and ​Tamer Dagli

2

INTRODUCTION
SINOVATE (SIN) is an open-source state of the art Peer-to-Peer (P2P) digital
cryptocurrency dedicated to developing cutting edge blockchain products, services, and
solutions.
SIN seeks to implement innovative blockchain technologies into all areas of the modern
economy and is continuously researching new applications for private and corporate use.

Some of the innovations include the X25X algorithm, FlashSend, Infinity Nodes, Incorruptible
Data Storage (I.D.S.), Revolving Sovereignty Votes (RSV), and SINOVATE Document
Verification (SDV).

The SINOVATE team is committed to transparency and acknowledges that the Blockchain
industry is still in its infancy. As such, several obstacles must be addressed, and to
overcome these, SINOVATE has assembled an experienced and talented team that is ready
for the challenge.

3

1. OUR VIEW
OUR VIEW
Since its inception in late 2018, the SINOVATE project has strived to deliver innovative
solutions in the blockchain space. This involves respecting and sometimes taking on board
opinions from the members for the overall benefit of the community. A genuinely democratic
decision-making solution ultimately addresses the community as the most critical aspect of
the project.
SINOVATE has a different perspective on how blockchain technology can be utilized to
improve the lives of private and corporate parties. Community building and management,
custom code development, and innovations are some of the things that differ SINOVATE
from others. SINOVATE is committed to transparency, accountability, and honesty as they
strive to solve existing problems within the blockchain technology space. As succinctly put
by the slogan; create, build, and innovate.

4

2. OUR MISSION

Building and improving upon trusted and proven aspects of blockchain, the SINOVATE team
is aware of future challenges. Blockchain technology is still considered by many to be in its
early stages of development or infancy. Economists are familiar with the space forecast that
blockchain will revolutionize nearly every modern industry and impact the daily lives of
people on a global scale. The implications are far-reaching and extend beyond the traditional
use of cryptocurrency as a store of value.

SINOVATE is a technically sound decentralized open-source network that is formed by a
combination of pre-existing and innovative blockchain technologies. This combination has
been explicitly tailored to overcome the challenges of scalability, security, and ingenuity.
SINOVATE is ready to adapt, evolve, and sustain its relevance in a continually changing
environment.
Therefore, our goal is to launch SINOVATE innovations in combination with a user-friendly
platform to fully integrate into the user’s day to day life.

3. FEATURES
SINOVATE name was chosen for several reasons. It represents the core beliefs and plans
of the team and community. There is also an eagerness to innovate the current way that
other blockchains function.

5

Providing the solutions necessary to make SINOVATE the next generation platform and
currency is being done principally through SINOVATE’s features. What follows are
explanations of how they work and what they bring to the table.

3.1 NEW X25X ALGORITHM
To protect and enhance the decentralization of the SINOVATE blockchain, a leading-edge
custom proof-of-work hashing algorithm was innovatively developed and implemented. The
X25X algorithm is a brand new algorithm best suited for GPU mining. It is also ASIC, FPGA,
and Quantum resistant with the addition of SWIFFTX to the algorithm chain. Ultimately, the
X25X hashing algorithm prevents large mining operations or farms from dominating the
SINOVATE blockchain. It is praised for being a very secure, fair, decentralized, and highly
accessible means by which to mine SIN coins.
The X25X is an excellent example of how SINOVATE is evolving blockchain technology.

6

3.2 PROOF OF BURN
Infinity Nodes implements the Proof of Burn (POB) mechanism, which by definition, provides
Blockchain network validity by ensuring that all participating nodes reach consensus. In
SINOVATE’s case, POB secures the network still further, by forcing bad actors to think twice
before attempting to carry out malicious activities. SIN coins must be sent to a
non-spendable address to initiate the burn process.
Infinity Nodes have an operational lifespan of 12 months and must remain active for this
entire duration to enable sustained network stability. POB provides this stability for future
use cases such as I.D.S. (Incorruptible Data Storage), as a decreasing circulating supply will
significantly lower sell pressure on investors and increase the value of their holdings,
creating an all-round beneficial environment.

3.3 SINOVATE INFINITY NODES
A simple node is a wallet running on a user’s device, relaying transactions, and keeping up
to date with the blockchain.
Nodes are vital parts of the network and can be described as computers that work to ensure
the integrity of a network. In this case, the network is that of the SINOVATE chain.
SINOVATE’s value comes from being dispersed across the globe, running on many nodes
across borders and jurisdictions while hosting a replicated blockchain.
Infinity node is, much like a node, supports and helps a cryptocurrency network through the
form of a wallet that is continuously online and aids or adds services to the blockchain. The
distributed ledger is replicated by the node owner, who is compensated for using their
resources via SIN. They provide additional services above the proof-of-work layer and
provide an alternative to earning cryptocurrency via mining to an owner.

7

When a user has a sufficient amount of coins, they can lock up their coins and configure a
virtual hosted server that earns rewards for the contribution their node makes to the network.
SINOVATE is proud to pioneer this groundbreaking technology, which successfully provides
passive, annual income while concurrently decreasing inflation. Infinity Nodes are the
evolution of Masternodes and aim to revolutionize current financial interest methods.
Typically, Masternode[5], Proof of Stake (POS), and even Proof of Work (PoW)
cryptocurrencies fail to address the obstacles involving high inflation and emission, leading
to deflation of value.
SIN coins used to create nodes are burnt immediately. The Infinity Node system entirely
removes coins from the SINOVATE Blockchain but are also rewarding node owners.
Proof-of-Burn based Infinity Nodes significantly reduces emission levels, not seen with other
Masternode or proof-of-work projects.

Unlike traditional Masternodes, Infinity Nodes and the coins that are set up for nodes are
removed from the circulating supply to control inflation while continuing to support, validate,
and secure the network. The incentive rate received is dependent on the number of Infinity
Nodes.Similar to conventional Masternodes[6], the rewards are not distributed via a Ring
Signature procedure and are instead calculated by average. For each block, the X25X
algorithm finds the top 30 nodes spanning across each Infinity Node tier. One Big, Mid, and
Little SIN Node must be found within this list, to initiate the rewarding process.
For instance, should no Mid SIN Infinity Node be found, all rewards relating to that block are
undistributed and permanently burnt.
All Infinity Nodes have a theoretical life of 12 months up until they are removed from the
node count to control the inflation in the number of nodes. Node payments are received
every day, for one year.
At the end of the Infinity Node’s locked up period, the nodes vanish forever.
For full transparency, burnt coins are sent to the address below in the process of burn:

SinBurnAddress123456789SuqaXbx3AMC (​Never send funds directly to this address​)

8

3.4 INFINITY NODES TIERS & REWARDS DISTRIBUTION
●

There are three tiers for Infinity Nodes

●

100K for Little, 160 SIN from block rewards

●

500K for Mid, 838 SIN rewards

●

1.000K for Big, 1752 SIN from block rewards

●

10K collateral required to operate and generate rewards

9

4. PRODUCTS & SERVICES
I.D.S. is a revolutionary Private Networking mechanism, designed to allow users to store files
for future retrieval and verification and send encrypted files to one another anonymously. It
also allows private messaging between users, using the SINOVATE chain to guarantee
security and prevent censorship. Users can choose the level of encryption they need, from
256 to 1024 bits. I.D.S. has five steps of data storage and sending, starting with 1.5 MB at
level 1 to unlimited storage at Level 5. I.D.S. level 5 encourages enterprises to move away
from expensive data centers in the future.[7]

10

4.1 IDS PROTOCOL

4.1.1​ DataStore
DataStore allows users to store digital documentation or data, timestamped with metadata,
and secured by the incorruptible SIN Blockchain.
With the data stored and secured, at any time, a local copy of the document or data can be
compared with that stored in the Blockchain. SINOVATE cryptography and the Blockchain
provide the underlying trust and empirical truth to enable the data stored to be validated.

4.1.2​ DataSend
Using the same technology and the underlying I.D.S. protocol also allows users to send data
and documentation to each other using the trusted and secure SINOVATE Blockchain to
guarantee the validity of the data.
Following unique benefits:
●

Increased security of personal information.

●

Data control back in the hands of users and recipients, with no additional storage
costs.

●

Privacy of data. This is paramount in the face of Facebook, Google, and other data
hacks and misuse.

●

Alleviation of hacking and disruptions that centralized databases are prone to
experience.

11

●

I.D.S. DataSend Level 1 will allow up to 1.5 MB of encrypted documents between the
two parties.

●

I.D.S. Level 5 will allow unlimited send and unlimited storage.

4.2 PROOF OF INTEGRITY
In addition to sending and storing data files on the blockchain, the I.D.S feature makes it
possible for users to prove the integrity of that data. Private individuals, corporations, and
governments need to be sure that the data they receive is genuine. SINOVATE will utilize
proof-of-integrity to solve this problem. For example, when Alice decides to send data to
Bob, Alice must create a new transaction type TX_BURN_DATA. This transaction is then
included in a subsequently mined block and saved in the main SIN blockchain.
1. <PublicKey of Bob> ⇒ this is known by Alice (required to send data to Bob)
2. <OP_RETURN> ⇒ the number of SIN coins committed to the transaction will be
burnt. The amount transacted is dependent on how long Infinity Nodes will store the
data and which Infinity Node layer is chosen (LIL, MID, BIG)
3. <SMALLDATA> ⇒ the hash of the data file (used as proof-of-integrity)
In summary, when the transaction and data file are sent from within a user’s wallet interface,
they are both broadcast to the network. The hash data file is stored on the blockchain, and
the actual data is saved on the chosen Infinity Node layer. It is the immutability of the hash
data file that proves that no-one is authorized to change it, and the data sent from Alice to
Bob is authentic, whole, and trusted.

SINOVATE DOCUMENT VERIFICATION S.D.V.
A blockchain is a public ledger used to record all the transactions in a decentralized manner
rather than using a physical ledger or a centralized database. While blockchain technology

12

was first implemented as a currency, its use cases and functionalities have evolved to
include activities such as trading, file storage, payment services, identity management,
financial exchanges, medical records management, education, and much more.
Sadly, in today’s environment, false documents are pandemic and can be readily available
around the globe. As the fraudulent documents precisely look like the originals, it is
cumbersome for the layman to identify the real and duplicate. The issuing institutions face
increasing demand for legitimate copies to verify the documents of candidates as originals
hard to prove.
Blockchain can significantly aid this area with its unique properties of storage of data
combined with the ability to timestamp said data, and with the public/private key
cryptography to control access and verify, it can be used for decentralized document
verification.
Since document verification is joint in every step of life, whether a birth, marriage, court
proceedings, employment purposes, official letter, or any new uses, it can be adequately
done by the SIN blockchain.
Using SINOVATE's I.D.S. platform, a user can safely store a document on the SIN network
and control access or send it to other users securely. The document is stored encrypted with
the user able to compare a local copy with that stored in the blockchain, verifying the
authenticity of the document.
How it works:
Think an institution has decided to store its certificates on blockchain for safety, availability,
and authenticity purposes. The first mark is converting the document to a one-way
cryptographical hash provided by SINOVATE, and the hash code is then saved in the SIN
blockchain. The one-way cryptographical hash code serves as a copy of the document, and
the string of code performs as the proof of the document. When the owner grants this
document elsewhere, the code remains the same as saved in the blockchain. If the
cryptographical hash matches the details stored on SIN blockchain by the institution, the
certificates produced are genuine. If the documents are modified in any way, they do not
match. For example, a single pixel changed on a signature would produce an invalid match.

13

S.D.V. (SINOVATE Document Verification) works hand in hand with SINOVATE's I.D.S.
(Incorruptible Data Storage) and DataSend, combining these features provides users a
reliable and secure system they can rely on for complete trust-less documentation.

4.3 R.S.V. Revolving Sovereignty Votes
Decentralized governance is the future of any successful Blockchain project. SINOVATE
believes that Blockchain is ubiquitous in the underlying infrastructure and services in the
future of everyday life. Having fair voting for developments, marketing, and innovations of
the SINOVATE chain is vital for everyone.
SIN node owners can participate in the voting for the life of their nodes, which is 365 days,
so users who wish to continue gaining interest while having a right to vote must have a SIN
node.
Revolving Sovereignty Votes (R.S.V.) is backed by Infinity Nodes, so after the first 12
months cycle, the nodes and the votes are revolving for low emissions and fair voting.

14

Infinity Nodes contain an enhanced E-Governance system designed to put power in the
hands of its users, in the form of revolving votes.
These replace the traditional voting system and are dependent on the lifespan of nodes.
Revolving Sovereignty Votes(RSV) allow for the most decentralized E-Governance voting
system. In other words, community members who wish to vote must continue to own a node
whenever their maturity date finishes.

4.4 SIN SYSTEM ECONOMY
SINOVATE philosophy is to encourage reward growth in the Blockchain space and build the
economy of the system with that in mind. Inflation is an issue that faces many other projects
which use Proof-of-Stake, Proof-of-Work, or Masternode systems.
The bloated emission rates of many other Masternode projects, drive down the price of the
coin or token, which leads to ever decreasing rewards for investors.
Our goal is to create a deflationary system using Infinity Nodes to revolutionize Masternode
Technology. SINOVATE’s unique burn mechanisms ensure that inflation is kept firmly
regulated.
SINOVATE sets itself aside from ordinary split Proof-of-Work/Masternode systems, while
seeking to create continuous growth, volume and exposure together with controlled inflation.

15

Also, big sell scenarios from wallets containing significant holdings are mitigated mainly, if
these SIN coins are locked into Infinity Nodes and earning interest.

High node count equates to reduced rewards, with fewer coins in circulation impacting the
selling pressure of SIN coins positively in the long run. Conversely, less locked in nodes
means higher interest for a short period. Should all Infinity Node tiers reach maximum
capacity,, the growth of SIN is likely to be significantly impacted upwardly.
Significant benefits offered by Infinity Nodes are designed to encourage investment and,
therefore, increase the quantity of locked in nodes that secure the network, enabling swift
and secure functionality as well as for future features such as I.D.S. to be implemented
seamlessly. SINOVATE positions itself as the Masternode orientated cryptocurrency, which
consistently integrates the highest number of nodes locked into its system. Incorruptible
Data Storage and Encrypted Unlimited Data are amongst the critical innovations offered by
SINOVATE, with the ultimate goal of mass adoption amongst the layman, merchants, and
service providers alike.

How it works:
Infinity Nodes are designed to reward both early and late adopters. As the Blockchain grows
and more users join, a higher quantity of fees is burnt through daily use. Fees are kept
reasonable for regular use. The increased transactions in the network vanish through the
burning of fees and locking up of Infinity Nodes, creating controlled inflation.
SIN system economy leads to a positive feedback loop that aids SINOVATE’s growth and
development while rewarding node holders, miners, investors, and daily users.

16

4.5 INFINITY NODES SECURITY & ANONYMITY
Infinity Nodes are chosen to process the FlashSend transactions using a pseudo-random
ordering based on an algorithm, utilizing the hash from each block. The proof-of-work mining
network thus provides the underlying security as with each new block, a different set of
nodes is selected. This group is comprised of a selection of ten ranked nodes.

4.5.1 What is FlashSend?
Over the last decade, code development has resulted in improvements in how Blockchain
Technology functions. Innovations have been introduced, which have increased the security,
reliability, and efficiency of sending transactions via a decentralized and trustless network.
FlashSend is a feature of the SINOVATE Blockchain that enables wallet users to send SIN
in a matter of seconds (less than 2 seconds). It utilizes two elements of the network protocol,
transaction locking, and Infinity Node consensus, to facilitate instantaneous transactions.
With such rapid transfers, many additional use cases come into view. High-speed micro and
mobile payments use become obvious.
FlashSend outperforms similar features on other Blockchains due to the high capacity,
scalable nature of the SIN network. SINOVATE achieves 533 transactions per second, much
faster than a previous proof of work iterations. SINOVATE blockchain structure delivers up to
75 times more scalability than Bitcoin and significantly faster. Current ongoing development
aims for much-increased scalability in the future of the SIN Blockchain.

17

4.5.2 Why is FlashSend necessary?
As discussed above, transactions get confirmed by miners who direct processing power to
find block hashes successfully. They then receive a reward as an incentive. If there are too
many transactions processed, the time that is taken to find the next block can take minutes,
or even hours. By paying a higher fee to transact in this situation, FlashSend can be used to
transfer SIN instantly and irreversibly by using Infinity Nodes.
Infinity Nodes assures double-spend protection that acts as observers and giving them
higher authority regarding FlashSend transactions, in a manner that does not result in high
transaction fees. It allows merchants to use mobile devices instead of traditional centralized
point of sale (PoS) systems, to settle commerce face-to-face without the inconvenience of
waiting too long.
No central authority is required to observe or validate transactions, and FlashSend has an
initial limit of 10,000 coins per transaction for micropayment functionality.

5. DEVELOPMENT PROGRESS
SINOVATE’s evolution initially depends on user growth generation. The platform is designed
to scale rapidly under the influence of demand-side economies of scale and cross-side
network effects. We intend to utilize the scaling potential and increasing the volume of
transactions to develop features further to enhance the user’s experience. Moreover, we aim
to expand our business model in terms of integrating with partners and connecting different
ecosystems in one.

5.1 INNOVATION
Our big team of talented developers aims to lead innovation in the space with ever-evolving
unique features. For instance, the innovation of the “time-lock” interest feature of SUQA has
evolved into the concept of Infinity Nodes with their distinct coin burn mechanism; it brings
significant improvements in Masternode security and Blockchain economy.

18

Sandbox environments are used for testing ideas and new features. Our testnets and
sandboxes can simulate market and network conditions to aid monitoring and improving the
primary SIN protocol. Several further innovations are under development, such as
InfiniteChain, Deterministic Infinity Nodes, R.S.V. Infinity Nodes based DAO creation.

5.2 EXPERIENCE
SINOVATE builds on the work completed by Satoshi Nakamoto with its vast team of
developers across the globe. We thank them, and as part of the SINOVATE development
strategy, it would be unwise not to continue to learn lessons from the close to 20,000
commits (at the time of writing) on the open-source Bitcoin GitHub.
The team draws on experience from an extensive background of roles and continually keeps
up to date with innovations in the broader crypto space. It is a vital objective of this strand to
assess the developments of our friends, colleagues, and partners in other projects.
SINOVATE aims to leverage the support and development of Bitcoin and other open-source
projects if they add significant value to SINOVATE Technology.
SINOVATE Github has achieved more than 400 commits starting from the genesis block one
year ago active with multiple daily commits.
SINOVATE Blockchain has 750.000 installed, 27.000 daily active wallets reaching 7.8 million
total transactions in a year.

6. SINOVATE USE CASES
There are many examples of how the SINOVATE Blockchain could be used in industries
across a broad spectrum of fields. Adopting the unique features of Blockchain combined with
the ability to store, send, and retrieve documentation securely is a powerful addition to the
SINOVATE set of features.
It can be used in conjunction with legacy systems and processes to bring cutting edge
technology to many businesses, sectors, and individual users. Documents stored and sent
with SINOVATE are time stamped. At any point, a user can compare a local copy of
documentation stored on the Blockchain through cryptography to prove it existed at a point
in time. It allows users to sign documents using their SIN address as an identity digitally.

19

Document storage has proven challenging to implement with other Blockchain projects due
to the latency in storing and retrieving documents. The SINOVATE chain, with its low
latency, 533 Tx’s, can improve on previous iterations.

Data and documentation are stored in a decentralized manner across the SINOVATE
Blockchain, meaning that the documents and data stored provide a source of truth that is
incorruptible and immutable:
-

SINOVATE Finance Solution

-

SINOVATE Medical use and privacy

-

SINOVATE Insurance

-

Government

-

SINOVATE Education

-

Go Green, Go SINOVATE

Detailed information on use cases will be available in Whitepaper v3 XXL.

7. BUSINESS STRATEGY
SINOVATE platform needs to be economically sustainable for long term growth and viability.
The business strategy is to provide a user-intuitive platform where users can enjoy,
research, and implement the Blockchain solution and cryptocurrency into their daily lives. It
will be accomplished by acting upon the community’s issues/hassles when needed and by
offering a large selection of features and solutions to them.
At SINOVATE, there is immense potential for future growth within the cryptocurrency market.
In March 2017, the estimated number of cryptocurrency users was between 2.9 and 5.8
million. Since then, proportional to the market price of Bitcoin, the number of cryptocurrency
users has grown exponentially and is projected to exceed 200 million active users by 2024,
driven by increased mainstream and institutional adoption.
SINOVATE aims to act upon this opportunity while the market is still in its infancy by catering
our products and services to beginner and advanced users to attract corporate and
institutional investors due to our core focus on security, integrity, and regulatory compliance.

20

SINOVATE is not here for the hype, SINOVATE is here to stay, this has to do with our belief
in the world of cryptocurrencies. We see the rising demand and need for Blockchain
Technology, and are ready to expand on this further, help people implement it, and educate
them.

7.1 MARKETING STRATEGY
Our first and already completed step is the launch of our web portal. According to our
research, 70–80% of the marketing campaigns are through information distribution channels,
and the company’s website embodies 80- 90% of this information load.
Therefore, SINOVATE has devoted its resources to the creation of a web portal that is not
only beautifully designed and well organized, but also complete with full details about the
possibilities of SINOVATE. It contains core information about our team structure, the
ideology behind SINOVATE, schedules, communication channels, and all other details that
are necessary for our users.
Social media use and digital marketing are swiftly increasing, primarily through the use of
mobile devices. SINOVATE team is renowned for its activeness on all mediums regularly by
the wide variety of its team members from all over the world.
Above all, SIN team values transparency and honesty, so it is essential to us that critics,
end-users, contributors, and investors have access to the clear information.

7.2 FINANCIAL CLARIFICATION & TRANSPARENCY
A culture of transparency has led to colossal support. SINOVATE is a free, open-source
project that is built by expert Blockchain developers. Support has been proliferating in our
community of Blockchain enthusiasts, which spans the globe. Our governance model is also
crucial to transparency as anyone can now view the outcome of voting events to shape the
future of our ecosystem. This way, we have established a democratic system that fits the
needs of most, and by doing so, we believe that it will have the most impact on Blockchain
Technology and its users.
SINOVATE is notable for being one of the most transparent cryptocurrencies by sharing
every single detail with the community. SIN provisions a 10% Developer Fee from the block

21

rewards. Developer Fee is used for further development to maintain the ecosystem and to
invest in the solution to the problems which are experienced in real life.
We believe that a blockchain project can not be successful without sufficient funds.
In order to grow as a platform, financial clarification is essential; here is ours.
Financial Articles
Development Wallet
More detailed Financial information will be released with White paper V3 XXL.

7.3 ​MILESTONES
Milestone 1 in year 2019
The first milestone see the rebrand and release of the Infinity Node architecture and lays
down the core infrastructure to allow additional features and capabilities. The Infinity Node
layer is integrated into the PoW Blockchain. It is one of the first innovations with data stored

22

within coin transaction data and secured into the SIN network. P2P File sharing between
Infinity Nodes and miners will be enabled in the year 2020.

Features enabled and will be enabled:
●

Infinity Nodes

●

FlashSend

●

IDS (DataStore-DataSend)

●

X25X Algorithm

●

RSV Voting

●

Heritage (inheritance,Legacy)

●

B-Mail(Blockchain Mail)

●

InfiniteChain

23

7.4​

SWOT ANALYSIS

24

7.5​ ROADMAP

25

26

27

28

29

Detailed information regarding the Roadmap will be available on Whitepaper v3 XXL and on
Roadmap v3, which shows innovations until 2023.

30

7.6 ​SINOVATE TEAM

31

32

33

7.7 SINOVATE MINING
The efficiency and reduced heat profile of the X25X algorithm aids miners and proves that
mining operations do not have to maximize power consumption and heat output to compete
and to be ASIC/FPGA/Quantum resistant. For larger miners, this can mean more effortless
scalability with less cooling and ventilation requirements.
7.7.1 Blockchain specifications and Block rewards;
Block Time: 2 minutes
Max Block Size: 16mb
Max transactions per second: 533 Tx/s
Difficulty Retarget Algorithm: LWMA
Total Supply: Approx.2.5 billion after 20 years

34

7.7.2 MINERS & POOLS
●

Official Pool

●

T-rex Nvidia(Cuda) GPU Miner

●

FancyX AMD(OpenCl) GPU Miner

●

Wildrig AMD(OpenCl) GPU Miner

●

https://sinovate.io/documents/article/mining-guide/

●

https://sinovate.io/documents/

​Explorer

35

SIN Wallets​ and ​SIN Wallet setup Guide

36

7.8​ MARKETING CHANNELS & PLATFORMS
Brand awareness and community building are the most important aspects of transparency. It
opposes any potential uncertainty users may have with the SINOVATE currency & platform.
To build awareness around the brand and to put the project on the radar, the SIN team
actively participates in these platforms and generates a presence among users. This
activeness enables establishing a great relationship with our community and by doing so,
makes SINOVATE the most user-friendly platform within the crypto sphere. SINOVATE’s
team can be considered one of the most active across all channels, providing 24-hour
support regularly.

Website​ ​ Discord​ .​ Telegram​ .​ Bitcointalk​ .​ Twitter​ .​ Facebook ​.​Linkedin​.​ Team​.​YouTube.
Reddit​.​Instagram​.
Telegram Rus - ​ ​Telegram Africa​ - ​Telegram Espanol - ​Telegram French - ​Telegram
Japanese - ​Telegram Italian - ​Telegram Turkish - ​Telegram Vietnamese​ - ​Telegram-Persian

37

7.9 References
1] ​SUQA Medium​ - ​SUQA-Btctalk
[2] ​https://medium.com/@wmougayar/a-guide-for-blockchain-usage-metrics-bed86b58df94
[3 ]​https://medium.com/@tronblack/ravencoin-building-the-immune-system-23d077b65f71
[4] ​https://blockonomi.com/proof-of-burn/
[5] ​https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dash_(cryptocurrency)
[6] ​https://medium.com/blockstake/masternode-manifesto-682bf182891a
[7] ​https://storj.io/blog/2019/04/introducing-tardigrade-decentralized-cloud-storage-from-storj-labs/
[*] ​https://www.blockchainexpert.uk/blog/document-verification-using-blockchain

38

