WHITEPAPER v2.0

VETRI
VALUE YOUR DATA

VETRI is taking personal data management to the next level. At the core is a user-controlled digital identity solution allowing people to transact online securely and seamlessly while safeguarding all their sensitive personal
data. Furthermore, VETRI can directly connect users with data consumers such as product and service companies, brands, researchers and advertisers. With the VETRI wallet, users can directly and easily start monetizing
their personal data in a fully secure and controlled fashion on the VETRI marketplace. In return, data consumers
gain direct access to reliable, anonymized data in a compliant and cost-efficient way.

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

1.1

Procivis

This Whitepaper is provided by Procivis AG for informational purposes only. Nothing in this
Procivis was founded in October 2016 in Switzerland with a clear mission: To empower citizens across the globe
Whitepaper shall be construed as an offer to sell or buy securities in any jurisdiction, or a soby providing them with a trusted digital identity and full control over their personal data in the digital age.
licitation
for investment, or an investment advice. The Whitepaper does not regulate any sale
There are different ways how Procivis goes about its mission. Currently, Procivis is working with governments
and
purchase
of VLD
tokens
(as referred
to in the
Whitepaper).
Theon
purchase
of VLD e-government
tokens is
to help them issue
digital
identities
to their citizens
and
residents, based
their integrated
subject
to
the
Token
Sale
Terms
and
Conditions
and
the
use
of
VETRI
is
subject
to
the
Platform
platform called “eID+”.
Terms and Policies.

With VALID, Procivis is developing a fully self-sovereign identity and personal data platform, based on “eID+”
and backed with blockchain, which will work independently of any central authority and puts the control over
This
Whitepaper
describes
the current
vision for
VETRI. While we intend to attempt to realize
personal
data back
into the hands
of the individual
user.

this vision, please recognize that it is dependent on a number of factors and subject to risks. It is
Procivispossible
is proud that
to callVETRI
Switzerland
home.
is quickly
becoming
global
center
whereofemerging
entirely
will never
beSwitzerland
implemented
or adopted,
or athat
only
a portion
our
cryptography,
blockchain
and
other
distributed
ledger
technologies
and
businesses
can
thrive
in a safe, supvision will be realized. We do not guarantee or warrant any of the statements in this Whitepaper,
portive, and vibrant environment, thanks to its progressive regulatory framework, deep talent pool and sophisbecause they are based on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions, about which there
ticated infrastructure.
can be no assurance due to various anticipated and unanticipated events that may occur.

Some of that talent have found their way into Procivis, which is composed of a world-class team of employees,
founders andcryptocurrencies
advisors who jointlyand
provide
unrivalled
expertise
blockchain technology,
data protection,
secuBlockchain,
other
aspects
of the in
technology
used for VETRI
is in its inrity and e-governance.

fancy and will be subject to many challenges, competition and a changing environment. We will
Further
information
about Procivis
and “eID+”
found on
our
website: www.procivis.ch
try
to update
our community
as things
grow can
andbe
change,
but
undertake
no obligation to do so.

Due to the retrospective nature of regulatory action or guidance, we can make no guarantees
re-garding the legality of VETRI or the VLD token launch in any given jurisdiction. We must operate VETRI in accordance with the laws of relevant jurisdictions. As such, VETRI or VLD tokens
may not be immediately available in certain countries.
VLD tokens are functional utility smart contracts within the VETRI platform. VLD tokens are
non-refundable and are not for speculative investment. No promises of future performance or
value are or will be made with respect to VLD tokens, including no promise of inherent value,
no promise of continuing payments, and no guarantee that VLD tokens will hold any particular
value. VLD tokens are not securities and are not a participation in the Foundation (once established) or Procivis AG. VLD tokens hold no rights in the Foundation (once established) or Procivis
AG.
This Whitepaper may be updated or altered, with the latest version of the Whitepaper prevailing
over previous versions and we are not obliged to give you any notice of the fact or content of
any changes. The latest version of the Whitepaper in English is available at the website https://
VETRI.global. While we make every effort to ensure that all data submitted in the Whitepaper is
accurate and up to date at the point in time that the relevant version has been disseminated, the
proposed Whitepaper is no alternative to consulting an independent 3rd party opinion.
The Whitepaper does not constitute an agreement that binds Procivis AG or the Foundation
(once established). Procivis AG, the Foundation (once established), the Procivis AG's and the
Founda-tion's directors, officers, employees and associates do not warrant or assume any legal
liability arising out of or related to the accuracy, reliability, or completeness of any material contained in the Whitepaper.
To the fullest extent permitted by any applicable law in any jurisdiction, Procivis AG and the
Foundation (once established) disclaim all liability to you and everyone else in respect of the
content of this Whitepaper, whether under any theory of tort, contract or otherwise and whether in respect of direct, indirect, consequential, special, punitive or similar damages. Persons who
intend to purchase VLD tokens, should seek the advice of independent experts before committing to any action, set out in the Whitepaper.

GLOSSARy
Data consumers

Entities receiving and using data sets. In the context of VETRI, this
would typically be companies conducting research, surveys or digital
advertising campaigns.

Demographic data

Socio-economic data such as age, income, education and employment, which represent specific geographic locations for a specific
time period.

eID+

Procivis’ digital identity platform, which allows governments to deliver online services to their citizens and residents via secure and government-attested identity data.

ITO

Initial Token Offering of VLD tokens by Procivis AG.

Procivis AG

A digital identity and e-government services provider founded in Zurich, Switzerland, in October 2016. Referred to as Procivis.

Psychographic data

Data used to describe consumers based on psychological attributes,
such as personality, values, opinions, interests, attitudes and lifestyle.

Self-sovereignty

In the context of personal data management, self-sovereignty refers
to the idea that the individual has full control over his or her personal data. It also implies that individuals no longer have to rely on one
central authority, such as governments, for the accreditation of their
identity attributes.

User

A user is a digital identity owner that controls his or her personal data
via the VETRI wallet.

VETRI

VETRI is a self-sovereign, blockchain-based digital identity and personal data platform connecting identity owners with data consumers.
Once completed, VETRI will operate as a not-for-profit, peer-to-peer,
open source personal data management platform managed by the
VETRI Foundation. The platform will consist of the VETRI wallet and
the VETRI marketplace.

VETRI Foundation

Procivis will aim to create a Swiss-based Foundation governed by
Swiss law in 2019.

VETRI marketplace

The VETRI marketplace connects identity holders and data consumers through blockchain smart contract technology and matches supply and demand commission-free.

VLD token

The VLD token “VLD” is the virtual currency unit on the VETRI marketplace.

VETRI wallet

The VETRI wallet allows identity holders to manage their personal
data in a self-sovereign manner as well as to monetise that data using
a secure, privacy protecting platform that they fully control.

iii

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1 BACKGROUND										1
1.1 INTRODUCTION TO DIGITAL IDENTITY AND PERSONAL DATA 		

1

1.2 PERSONAL DATA TRENDS AND MARKET OPPORTUNITIES 			

2

1.3 PROCIVIS 										6
2 VETRI 											7
2.1 OVERVIEW									7
2.2 VETRI WALLET 									8
2.3 VETRI MARKETPLACE 								10
2.4 VETRI FOUNDATION 								11
2.5 USE CASES									13
2.6 ENABLING TECHNOLOGIES 							15
3 THE VLD TOKEN SALE									18
3.1 ALLOCATION 									18
3.2 USE OF PROCEEDS 								20
4 ROADMAP 										21
5 TEAM 											22
5.1
Partners									22
5.2	Core team									22
5.3
Extended Team								23

iv

1

background

1.1

INTRODUCTION TO DIGITAL IDENTITY AND PERSONAL DATA

Just as the information in a passport identifies its holder for specific purposes, a digital identity,
in its simplest form, is an online proxy for a real individual.¹ It can be used to identify the individual
for many more purposes in our digital age than would be possible with just a paper-based passport.
These attributes can represent the obvious: given and chosen attributes such as name, last name,
passport number, address, along with other demographic data. Less obvious digital attributes are
preferences, opinions and attitudes (psychographic data). Collectively, this information can be
used to create a profile of a person, with varying degrees of certainty, or level of assurance (LOA),
that indicates whether a particular person is indeed who they say they are, thereby allowing the
holder of that identity access to services or resources at a physical location or online. The more
strongly these attributes can be verified and linked to the real person, the more valuable such a digital identity can be to the citizens who opt to use it and to the parties who rely on it, and thus to the
entire identity ecosystem. And just as a passport contains only a narrow set of identifying data, a
digital identity also consists of only a narrow set of all the data related to a person (see figure 1). The
much broader set of rapidly growing personal data available about an individual includes a lot of
user-generated content, such as pictures and health-tracking data that can be directly or indirectly
linked to an individual, for instance via the metadata contained within modern digital devices.

Figure 1 Digital identity vs. Personal data

The rapidly evolving relationship between personal data and digital identity is a growing concern
for individuals and companies alike. Individuals are increasingly worried about forgoing both their
privacy and their ability to control who has access to their personal data and what is being done
with this information. Companies, on the other hand, fear that mishandling the data – be it through

1

their own, or third-party applications – could undermine their position as a trusted provider. The
frequency and extent of known data security breaches at major corporations around the world
show that data theft is a very profitable business. This is also a reflection of the inherent value of
individuals’ personal data. Hence, for digital identity systems to truly succeed and deliver on their
promise, it is widely recognized now that a new paradigm is urgently needed.²

1.2

Personal Data Trends and Market Opportunities

1.2.1	Changing Regulatory Landscape
In May 2018, a new European privacy regulation called the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) will come into force. It will apply to all businesses selling to, and storing personal information about, residents in Europe, including companies located on other continents.³ The aim of this
regulation is to give individuals more power over their data and less discretion to the organizations
that collect and use it for monetary gains.
For instance, under GDPR, individuals will have the right to obtain confirmation from companies as
to whether or not personal data concerning them is being processed, where and for what purpose.
Further, they will have the right to a copy of their personal data being stored and processed, free of
charge, in an electronic format. GDPR will also make it illegal for companies to promote marketing
material to consumers without their explicit consent. Consequently, this will require companies
to keep strict and auditable records for most of their interactions with existing and prospective
clients.
Practically, the GDPR will have wide repercussions on the way businesses throughout Europe, and
quite possibly beyond, handle data and their accountability for the process. The early spillover of
this regulation from Europe to other jurisdictions is best illustrated by the new guidance issued by
the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC), stipulating that from May 2018,
Australian businesses of any size may need to comply with the GDPR if they have an establishment
in the European Union (EU), if they offer goods and services in the EU, or if they monitor the behaviors of individuals in the EU.⁴
While GDPR does create challenges for some businesses, it also creates opportunities. Companies
that employ innovative, privacy-respecting ways of reaching out to customers, beyond mere legal
compliance, are likely to build deeper trust and retain more customers than those that do not.

2

1.2.2

Digital Advertising: Fast-Growing but plagued with Inefficiencies and abuse

Individuals continue to increase their time spent using digital media, while advertisers continue
to increase their ad budgets into digital channels. According the Interactive Advertising Bureau,
marketers spent USD 72.5 billion on digital advertising last year, an increase of 22% from 2015, as
Google and Facebook once again booked the lion’s share of net new revenues. In the US, the digital advertising industry is projected to continue to experience remarkable growth through 2021
to reach almost USD 100 billion in annual revenue, with mobile and social advertising becoming
the top destinations, the latter expected to double in size to USD 30.8 billion by 2021.⁵ But for
companies wanting to reach out to potential clients and who are having to budget for brand advertising, an excessive number of intermediaries must be taken into account. It is estimated that for
every USD 1 spent on digital marketing, advertisers only receive 44 cents of value, the rest being
absorbed by intermediaries.⁵ Ever rampant and fraudulent malware and other malicious bots are
further adding to the problems currently afflicting the advertising marketplace. In 2016, ad fraud
created by internet bots was expected to have cost advertisers USD 7.2 billion, up from USD 6.3
billion in 2015.⁶

1.2.3

Personal Data Tsunami

The volume of personal data that is generated each and every day is mind-boggling. As the internet
economy hums along, billions of connected devices, people, and sensors record trillions of transactions and behaviors.
Just as remarkable is the potential value of data. When gathered, analyzed, and connected, personal data has the potential to reveal patterns or enable practices that can transform businesses and
societies. As discussed above, efforts to protect privacy tend to place a premium on the consent
of the individual – best illustrated by all the “I agree” boxes one sees online. But the prevailing
notice-and-consent approach has clear limitations: it fails to give people any understanding of, or
genuine control over, how their information will be used.

3

Figure 2 This is what happens in an Internet minute⁷

1.2.4	Consumer Behaviour
While deriving an actual monetary value for one’s personal data might still seem like an abstract
concept, people are becoming increasingly aware that a great deal of money is being garnered
from their personal data. In 2015, the data broker market alone amassed USD 156 billion from selling data that does not belong to them.⁸ But it is not only data brokers who profit, far from it. Technology giants, chief among them Google, Facebook, Yahoo, Microsoft and Apple, reap hundreds of
billions each year thanks to personal data generously handed over by individuals all over the world.
Consequently, an ever-increasing number of Internet users have resorted to active avoidance of
aggressive advertising via the installation of adblockers.⁹ But it isn’t just adblockers that are causing
advertisers problems; they also face increasing hostility from internet users who are tired of being
targeted with dull and irrelevant ads. Recent results from Adobe found that 27% of Brits believed
that digital ads have “gotten worse” and 54% viewed the content as “ineffective”.¹⁰ Interestingly,
studies show that users who are able to manage and protect their privacy are up to 52% more willing to share information than those who are not - presumably because they feel empowered by being able to adjust their data sharing activities to their unique preferences. In conclusion, individuals
either want no ads or relevant ads that fit their preferences.¹⁰ And there lies the opportunity. And
with recent advancements in virtual and augmented reality and their implications on the delivery
of advertising, this need for ever more personalized and targeted advertising is set to significantly
increase in the near future.

4

1.2.5

Emerging Solutions for the developing world

A very different opportunity presents itself at the other extreme of the identity spectrum. An estimated 1.1 billion people in the world are unable to prove their identity, for lack of any kind of official
physical documentation.¹¹ For most of them, it is highly unlikely that they will ever be able to prove
their identity using conventional means, such as accredited documentation from a governmental
body. While these individuals certainly know who they are, they are often excluded from property
ownership, free movement, and social protection simply because they are unable to prove their
identity.
Beyond passports and birth certificates, identities are also records of our past, and they are amended over time along with the events in our lives. These events constitute a historical record, an
irreplaceable ledger that is unique to us. By fusing one’s historical records with blockchain and distributed ledger technology, we could very well see the emergence of credible solutions for those
individuals lacking official identity documents.

5

1.3

Procivis ag

Procivis was founded in October 2016 in Switzerland with a clear mission: to empower citizens
across the globe by providing them with a trusted digital identity and full control over their personal data. There are different ways how Procivis goes about its mission. Currently, Procivis is working with governments to help them issue digital identities to their citizens and residents, based
on its integrated e-government platform called “eID+”. With VETRI, Procivis is developing a fully
self-sovereign identity and personal data platform, based on eID+ and backed by blockchain technology. VETRI will work independently of any central authority and puts the control over personal
data back into the hands of the individual user.
A pilot version of eID+ will be delivered to the Swiss Canton of Schaffhausen in December 2017
and is expected to be followed by a full roll-out of the solution to its residents during the second
quarter of 2018. Furthermore, Procivis is also currently working on several pilot programs for its
digital identity platform with foreign governments and supra-national organizations. It is projected that, by the end of 2018, a significant number of people will be using Procivis’ digital identity
solution on a regular basis. Consequently, it is expected that this existing and fast-growing user
base for eID+ will significantly accelerate the adoption of VETRI as the next generation and fully
compatible personal data management platform.
Procivis is proud to call Switzerland home. Switzerland is quickly becoming a global center where
emerging cryptography, blockchain and other distributed ledger technologies and businesses can
thrive in a safe, supportive, and vibrant environment, thanks to its progressive regulatory framework, deep talent pool and sophisticated infrastructure. Some of that talent have found their way
into Procivis, which is composed of a world-class team of employees, founders and advisors who
jointly provide unrivalled expertise in blockchain technology, data protection, security and e-governance.
Further information about Procivis and eID+ can be found on our website: www.procivis.ch

Figure 3 Procivis’ eID+

6

2

VETRI

2.1

Overview

Procivis, for the next iteration of its digital identity platform, intends to expand the digital identity
sphere beyond personal attributes by encompassing the individual users entire personal data space.
Credit card transactions, geolocation logs, browsing history as well as user-generated content are
a few examples of personal data VETRI will help users control, safeguard and share when they so
choose.
The VETRI platform will consist of a mobile wallet (VETRI wallet) for users to manage their personal
data as well as a web application (VETRI marketplace) for data consumers to buy and access that data.
Users and data consumers, who together form the “stakeholders”, will be able to add data, request
data form third parties, get their data verified, manage their privacy settings, buy services and finally share and monetize their data in a fully user-controlled fashion. This new ecosystem will also be
decentralized and supported by innovations discussed in section 2.6 below. By delinking all personal
information from other data-points a new level of privacy can be achieved.

Figure 4 VETRI overview

7

VETRI’s stakeholders have many profiles and take on multiple roles and missions. For instance, a
credit card issuer can one day choose to directly advertise its products and services to users, propose a consumer survey the next or simply make an offer to a defined user pool to acquire their
anonymized spending habits data. Finally, it can also help verifying users’ identity attributes when
and if prompted to do so.

Figure 5 VETRI stakeholders shown as per type of data traded

2.2

VETRI Wallet

The VETRI wallet acts as a user interface between the user’s data, the ecosystem and the VETRI
marketplace where services are accessed and data is shared.
The main features of the personal data wallet are:
2.1.1 A SELF-SOVEREIGN DIGITAL IDENTITY FOR USERS TO BE AUTHENTICATED WITH
The VETRI digital identity solution is 100% owned and controlled by the user. No one else can read,
use or take away the information it contains without the owner’s explicit consent.

8

2.1.2 A DIGITAL VAULT TO SAFEGUARD USERS’ DIGITAL IDENTITY AND SENSITIVE PERSONAL
DATA
As a decentralized application interacting with users’ personal data, privacy and security will be
VETRI’s number one priority. VETRI users will store their most sensitive data locally on their device
by using state-of-the-art encryption techniques and the application itself will be locked by multiple
factors of user authentication.
2.1.3 A GATEWAY TO THE VETRI MARKETPLACE WHERE USERS CAN MONETIZE THEIR PERSONAL DATA
Using their VETRI wallet, users can opt to share and grant access to their data on the VETRI marketplace as they see fit in a fully modular fashion. As a reward, users will be remunerated in VLD
tokens based on the desirability of the shared data as perceived by data consumers and using
straight-forward market-based pricing mechanisms.

Figure 6 Privacy setting, personal data sharing request and VLD token wallet

9

2.3

VETRI marketplace

The VETRI marketplace is taking the concepts of personal data control and self-sovereignty one
step further: as owners of their personal data on purchases, online browsing history or mobile data,
users will also be able to choose whether or not to “sell” that data, with user-defined rights and
restrictions implemented in smart contracts. To quote a Harvard Business Review’s article titled
“Blockchain Could Help Us Reclaim Control of Our Personal Data”, this blockchain-enabled innovation “could shift the power of (and profit from) data management from big, established firms
back to individual users”.¹²
Digital marketers as data consumers do not need to know people’s names, or contact details to
run effective marketing campaigns. In fact, all they require is a certain assurance they can reach
a desired target audience as defined by a combination of the users’ demographic data, tastes and
preferences (psychographic data). With VETRI, users will be able to pro-actively share anonymized
demographic and psychographic data, thus enabling the creation of target audience filters on the
VETRI platform for digital advertisers to use. However, with VETRI these advertisers can never
read nor copy the information, but are simply assured that a defined pool of users correspond to
their audience criteria and have consented to receiving advertising from them or from similar companies as specified by the users’ interest and preference settings.
From the advertisers’ perspective, the process is akin to marketing on Facebook and Google but
from the users’ standpoint, the differences are significant:
• Users will be remunerated instead of the intermediaries
• VETRI, by design, will not be able to access, read nor collect any information contained in
users’ wallets
• Similarly, companies conducting surveys and polls do not require users’ identities and, in fact,
are most effective and least biased when users are guaranteed anonymity
VETRI’s user revenue model will be a function of the following parameters:
• The nature and reliability of data contained in users’ wallet
• The privacy settings and sharing preferences as defined by the user
• The degree of desirability of any particular dataset, as perceived and bid for by participating
data consumers

10

Figure 7 Illustration of an application that accesses VETRI marketplace to purchase personal data

2.4

VETRI Foundation

VETRI will be designed as a not-for-profit, peer-to-peer platform. As such, Procivis will never be
collecting any commissions or any kind of fees from either the transacting parties or for accessing the VETRI platform. Consequently, 100% of revenues generated via VETRI (net of blockchain
transaction fees) will go directly to its users, in the form of token payments. Further, if legally
permissible, Procivis will establish a Swiss-based Foundation governed by Swiss law by 2019. All
software and applications developed for the VETRI platform will be rendered open source and
transferred to the Foundation upon testing and completion of the platform in 2021. Under the
Foundation governance, the VETRI platform will continue to be available to everybody, from data
consumers to private individuals, for as long as they comply with VETRI’s policies and ethical guidelines as defined by the VETRI Foundation and its governing bodies.
The Foundation’s funding will be provided by a significant token allocation and be sustained by
standard open-source licensing revenue models. In turn, Procivis AG, will continue to earn revenues from the sale and licensing of its eID+ solution to governments and semi-autonomous regions

11

such as Swiss cantons. Furthermore, depending on the success of the VETRI marketplace, Procivis
AG, along with third-party service providers, intends to build value on top of the VETRI marketplace, for instance by offering VETRI wallet owners secure storage and other services that can
be paid for with VLD tokens. Services for data consumers could also include the development of
sophisticated analytics tools and smart contracts to optimize results from data gathering efforts.

12

2.5

USE CASEs

2.5.1 Advertising
Thomas is a thirty-year-old business consultant on his way to Frankfurt for a two-day visit. This is
Thomas’ first visit to Frankfurt and so he made sure he would receive relevant information and offers with respect to local services and city tips by opting into the relevant fields in his VETRI wallet.
As soon as he lands, two push notifications await to let him know that aside from Uber, he can catch
a ride for almost half the price with independent local companies, one of which is called FRAGO.
The cost of pushing a highly targeted ad to Thomas costs FRAGO the equivalent of EUR 0.2 in VLD
tokens, refunded back to Thomas.
About two dozen hotels, all within his pre-specified price and distance range, are fiercely competing for Thomas’ business and are pushing him offers costing up to EUR 2 token equivalent. Ana, the
reservation manager at a local boutique hotel, thinks it’s well worth it since her company won’t have
to pay the 25% commission normally charged by intermediaries such as travel websites. She pushes
the hotel’s last-minute offer to Thomas, who accepts it, and who agrees to share the requested
information stored in his digital identity: name, last name, credit card number and contact details.
Seconds later, his booking is confirmed. Thomas’ VETRI wallet also indicates the corresponding token payment from the hotel. The following day, Thomas must plan for his return home. The airline’s
online check-in application requires Thomas to confirm and share additional information such as his
passport number. Again, using VETRI, Thomas agrees and his check-in is confirmed.
2.5.2 Survey
The next day, on his way to the airport, Thomas gets a call from his friend who is sounding ecstatic.
She tells Thomas the story of how she just made 60 dollars answering a 45 minute-survey on her
smartphone. Thomas decides to look into this innovative VETRI Survey tool which promises to directly connect participating users and marketers without the use of third-party intermediaries. For
one, it is user-maintained and fully self-sovereign. Users are free stay perfectly anonymous and can
opt in or out of participating in a variety of surveys while specifically dictating the kind of personal
attributes they are willing to share and with whom.
Because VETRI’s identity platform relies on third-party attribute verifications, it can claim a high
degree of (demographic) data reliability. And because VETRI is built around data privacy and security by design, users don’t mind inputting their real personal data.
2.5.3 User-generated data
In his free time, Thomas often indulges in his passion for wildlife photography and, whenever he
gets the chance, he goes on expeditions in the middle of nowhere to capture nature’s wonders. To
stay on top of his game, he also exercises regularly and constantly monitors his health metrics with

13

the latest fitness tracker he can buy.
In fact, it so happens that his lifestyle and demographic attributes correspond exactly to the kind of
profile his health insurance company, BUPO, is trying to sample for their new product strategy initiative. Because BUPO has an existing client relationship with him, Thomas receives an invitation to
participate in a pilot project led by BUPO and in collaboration with VETRI. Thomas is always complaining about the difficulty to find reliable and affordable international health coverage. Therefore, when BUPO offered the possibility to lower his insurance premiums by up to 30% in exchange
for providing health data generated by his fitness tracker, he agreed to participate.
Some time later, he receives a notification from BUPO instructing him that he is entitled to a 30%
reduction on his monthly insurance premiums, paid in the form of VLD tokens into his VETRI wallet,
for a minimum of six months, and until he will again need to submit a new dataset. Moreover, thanks
to VETRI’s unified platform and verification processes, BUPO no longer has to manually process
mountains of paper-based personal information from different countries, in different languages
and with different standards.

14

2.6

Enabling technologies

2.6.1 Blockchain Distributed Ledger Technology
Blockchain consists of a continuously growing list of records, grouped in “blocks”, which are linked
together using cryptography and together form a digital ledger. If a blockchain is used in the form
of a distributed ledger, a blockchain can be managed by a peer-to-peer network collectively adhering to a protocol for VETRI validating new blocks, which, once recorded, can no longer be altered
or revoked. This consensus-based mechanism built into blockchain removes the need for intermediaries and central authorities to run the system, thereby allowing two parties who do not know or
trust each other to transact with one another.
Once a transaction is recorded on blockchain, it cannot be changed retroactively without also
altering the subsequent blocks and in agreement with the network’s majority consensus. Blockchain is therefore immutable yet it provides full transparency as every participant can in fact audit
everything that has ever been recorded. At the same time, participants are ensured privacy thanks
to the pseudo anonymity shield blockchain provides.
Over the last few years, the concepts of “private” blockchains and “hybrid” blockchains have become popular as they offer more options in terms of system design. In private or permissioned
blockchains, access is limited to a defined group of members. For this reason, they are also called,
quite simply, distributed ledgers.
The hybrid approach involves tracking data modifications on a private distributed ledger but recording these changes on a public blockchain. In effect, the public blockchain in this example only
acts as a notary for data modifications by verifying that they occurred, when they occurred (proof
of existence or timestamping). As VETRI will be handling a very significant amount of data, using a hybrid approach is to our current knowledge the best option to overcome the processing
limitations of public blockchains. VETRI is constantly monitoring the fast development of more
performant Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLT), including built-in side-channels, more efficient
consensus algorithms, and the reliability of various distributed file systems. Distributed Ledger
Technology is still in its infancy and consequently, we expect major advances to take place at the
protocol level. To deliver the best possible solution VETRI remains agnostic to underlying blockchain and DLT solutions at this moment.
2.6.2 Smart contracts
According to the inventor of Smart Contracts, Nick Szabo, a smart contract is a computer protocol
intended to facilitate, verify, or enforce the negotiation or performance of a contract. One key
feature of such contracts is that they allow pseudo-anonymous parties to enter into binding agreements, with each participant having full transparency on the agreement being made along with the
certitude that they will be enforced.

15

It is in fact the algorithmic code itself that defines the rules and the penalties around the agreement, thus forgoing the need of a governing third party. In the case of self-sovereign digital identity management, smart contracts enable individuals to control and process their personal data
on a public data marketplace. This allows individuals to choose what personal data to disclose to
counterparties, giving businesses the opportunity to reach and interact with customers in a fully
compliant and consensual manner, thus reducing liabilities while facilitating frictionless KYC.
2.6.3 Cryptography
Public key cryptography is a technique that allows entities to securely communicate on a public network, and reliably verify the identity of an entity. Public key cryptographic systems use a
combination of a public and a private key. The public key can be distributed widely but the private
key is only known to its owner. Because all personal data is encrypted, optimal management of
cryptographic keys is crucial for the overall integrity of the system. Users should be able to decide
about the level of security he or she requires for key recovery, should it be needed. One possible
solution involves storing key pairs on multiple devices, for instance a smartphone and a tablet or
a PC. Another option will be to provide users with the possibility to delegate key management to
trusted other participants where each participant has a portion of the private key.
To ensure optimal privacy and confidentiality, VETRI will be constantly evaluating advances made in
cryptographic technologies, such a zero-knowledge proof technology (ZKP). ZKP is a cryptographic technique which allows two parties (a prover and a verifier) to prove that something is true, without revealing any information about what that something is. But because current ZKP systems are
very resource intensive, VETRI intends to use off-chain computing to make the technology scalable
and fit for its most advanced uses. In addition, we will be keeping a close eye on the development of
homomorphic encryption, a technology which allows computations to be carried out on encrypted
data (ciphertext) without first having to decrypt it.
Finally, ensuring the robustness of the cryptographic keys will be one of the main priorities of
VETRI. With that objective in mind, VETRI will be using Elliptic-Curve Cryptography for signature
generation. Bitcoin, Ethereum and other lesser known blockchain solutions also use Elliptic Curve
Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) for cryptographic signatures. One of the main advantages
of ECDSA is that it uses shorter keys for the same level of security. This is important as more and
more cryptographic transactions are carried out on more and more mobile devices with limited
computational power.
2.6.4 Mobile technologies
Recent advances in broadband and touchscreen technology, computing power and the advent of
open source operating systems like Android have all contributed to the domination and popularity

16

of smart mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. The deployment of countless apps further increased the adoption of these smart devices. Because some of these apps store and process
sensitive data, such as electronic wallets, they require proven security solutions.
For these reasons, VETRI will be storing sensitive information locally using a cryptographic module
or a secure enclave in the main processor which safeguards the data it contains. In addition, interactions with the end user required for authentications further expose sensitive information such as
a PIN, password or biometric identifier to the mobile operating system.
VETRI will be incorporating innovative multi-factor authentication features, such as biometrics
technology using fingerprint and face recognition. We also intend to incorporate a behavioral biometric security layer as this technology is now mature enough to be used in production. In addition, NFC cards could also be added to VETRI’s security protocol whenever highly sensitive transactions are performed on a mobile device.
In conclusion, throughout its IT architecture, VETRI will be committed to helping protect users with
leading privacy and security technologies that are designed to safeguard personal information.

17

3

The VLD token SALE

Role of the token

The VETRI token enables buy and sale transactions between users and data
consumers on the VETRI marketplace and provides a unit of value

Maximum supply

1,000,000,000 - no new VETRI tokens will be created

For sale

500,000,000

Symbol

VLD

Price

1 VLD = 0.065 USD

Crowd sale period

Q1 2018

Accepted currencies

ETH / BTC / USD

3.1

Allocation

50% of all minted VLD tokens will be offered for purchase to the public. The crowd sale will take
place at the beginning of 2018 and stay open for 3 weeks or until the hard cap of USD 25,000,000
is reached.

Figure 8 Token allocation

18

• A total of 30% of minted VLD tokens will be held in a growth fund to be used to incentivize
users to participate in the VETRI ecosystem and to reward early adopters. This growth fund
will also include a 1% allocation to a bounty program dedicated to the community’s contributors of the VETRI ITO
• 9% of minted VLD tokens will be held in a reserve by PROCIVS AG for future employees’
incentivization and third-party developers with sales restrictions of up to 3 years
• 9% of raised VLD tokens will be allocated to the VETRI Foundation (to be established) to
ensure its long-term funding and to enable price stability mechanisms
• 2% of remaining VLD tokens will be allocated to compensate ITO advisors and partners
The total number of VLD tokens sold in the ITO will always make up for 50% of all minted tokens.
All unsold tokens in the ITO will be burnt and proceeds from the token sale will be allocated proportionally as per the below cost category allocation.
3.1.1

Private sale

A maximum of 60,000,000 VLD tokens will be offered to strategic buyers in the crypto community in a private sale process. The book-building process commences on November 3rd, 2017.
3.1.2

Presale

As part of a presale starting in January 2018, up to 100,000,000 VLD tokens will be offered to
prospective buyers at a 25% discount. The VLD tokens to be sold during the private sale and the
presale will be from the 500,000,000 VLD tokens for sale.
3.1.3	Crowd sale
For a period of 3 weeks, starting in the first quarter of 2018, a maximum of 340,000,000 tokens
will be available for sale according to the following discount scheme:
• First 20,000,000 tokens will be sold at 25% discount
• Then, for the first 24 hours of the crowd sale, tokens will be sold at a 20% discount
• Thereafter and for one week, tokens will be sold at a 15% discount
• The second week, tokens will be sold at a 10% discount
• No discount will be granted the final week of the crowd sale

19

3.2

Use of proceeds

Procivis being incorporated as an “AG” in Switzerland, it is subject to strict financial audit regulations and a high degree of transparency. Below is percentage breakdown of the anticipated cost
categories related the development and marketability of the VETRI platform, estimated as of October 31st 2017.

Figure 9 Proceeds allocation as per cost category

Salaries and development (57%) - The team consists of software engineers and business developers. This financing allows for the rollout of the VETRI platform, including the necessary adjustments to, and further development of, the existing eID+ platform.
Operations (17%) - Consists of VETRI sales, general and administrative costs (SGA) as well as legal compliance, security and infrastructure.
Marketing (14%) - Marketing will focus on expanding awareness among users, brands and advertiers.
Contingency (10%) - This is a set-aside for unforeseen costs.
Transaction Cost (2%) - Advisory costs related to the VLD token sale and other relevant transaction
costs.
The envisioned use of proceeds described above are provided for illustrative purposes only, and
Procivis AG and the VETRI Foundation (once established) reserves the right to allocate the resources, including proceeds from the sale of VLD tokens in a different way at its sole discretion.

20

Figure 10 Roadmap 2016-2021

21

5

Team

5.1

Partners

5.2	Core Team

Alexander Brozek
Systems Engineer

Daniel Gasteiger
Co-Founder & CEO

Dominique Kunz
Community Manager

Dariusz Niespodziany
Senior Software Engineer

Hanna Seibert
Office Manager

Sven Stucki
Software Engineer

Krzysztof Adam Górski
Legal Analyst

Adithya Pradeep Kumar
Business Analyst

Costa Vayenas
Senior Government Consultant

22

Patrick Graber
Head of Business Development

Yves-Alain Petitjean
Co-Founder & CFO

Giorgio Zinetti
CTO

5.3

Extended team

Lucas Betschart
President of
Bitcoin Association Switzerland

Thomas Bocek
Head of P2P and distributed systems at the University of Zurich

Malik El Bay
Blockchain Entrepreneur

Michael Guzik
ITO Advisor
Lykke Corp

Eva Kaili
Member of
the European Parliament

Ronald Kogens
Legal & Regulatory Counsel
FRORIEP Legal Ltd.

Guilherme Sperb Machado
Senior Software Engineer
& ITO Advisor

Monique Morrow
Co-Founder Humanized Internet
& Former Cisco CTO

Grégoire Notz
Managing Director
Notz Stucki Group

Guido Rudolphi
Cybersecurity Expert

Rolf Rauschenbach
Strategy Advisor
& Political Scientist

Christoph Rüdt
Strategic Communication
Ruedt Communication Consulting

Roger Wirth
Managing Director of
Information & Cybersecurity

Lili Zhao
Investor Relations Advisor

23

REFERENCES
1	Cheetham, M. (2013). Digital Identity: The Commercial Opportunity. Retrieved from
http://piranpartners.com/wp content/uploads/2014/12/Digital-Identity-The-Commercial-Opportunity.pdf
2

Mitchel, A. & Smith, J. (2014). Economics of Identity: The size and potential of the UK market for identity assurance.
Retrieved from http://oixuk.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/Economics-of-Identity-White-Paper.pdf

3

EU Parliament. (2016). GDPR Portal. Retrieved from www.eugdpr.org

4

Office of the Australian Information Commissioner. (2017). General Data Protection Regulation guidance for Australian
businesses. Retrieved from
https://www.oaic.gov.au/media-and-speeches/news/general-data-protection-regulation-guidance-for-australian-businesses

5

Mortensen, D. (2016). The US digital media ad revenue report: The path to $100 billion in annual revenue by 2021. Business
Insider. Retrieved from http://www.businessinsider.com/the-us-digital-media-ad-revenue-report-the-path-to-100-billion-in
-annual-revenue-by-2021-2016-8

6

Burgi, M. (2016). What’s Being Done to Rein In $7 Billion in Ad Fraud. Adweek. Retrieved from
http://www.adweek.com/brand-marketing/whats-beingdone-rein-7-billion-ad-fraud-169743/

7

Lewis, L. & Callahan, Ch. (2017). This is what happens in an Internet minute. Retrieved from
http://uk.businessinsider.com/everything-that-happens-in-one-minute-on-the-internet-2017-9?r=US&IR=T

8

Goodman, M. (2015). You thought Hackers were bad? Meet the data brokers. Future Crimes: Inside The Digital
Underground and the Battle For Our Connected World. London: Random House.

9

PageFair. (2017). The state of the blocked web: 2017 Global Adblock Report. Retrieved from
https://pagefair.com/downloads/2017/01/PageFair-2017-Adblock-Report.pdf

10
Vizard, S. (2016). Is digital advertising ‘getting worse’? UK consumers seem to think so. Marketing Week. Retrieved from 		
https://marketingweek. com/2016/09/14/is-digital-advertising-getting-worse-uk-consumers-think-so/
11

Desai, V., Witt, M., Chandra, K. & Marskell, J. (2017). Counting the uncounted: 1.1 billion people without IDs. The World Bank.
Retrieved from https://blogs. worldbank.org/ic4d/counting-invisible-11-billion-people-without-proof-legal-id

12
Mainelli, M. (2017) Blockchain Could Help Us Reclaim Control of Our Personal Data. Harvard Business Review. Retrieved 		
from https://hbr.org/2017/10/smart-ledgers-can-help-us-reclaim-control-of-our-personal-data

24

