Disclaimer

3

About the token

4

Technical specifications, emission

5

Legal restrictions

6

Investing in cryptocurrency

7

Maincoin mission and plans

9

Maincoin products and developm

10

Justification of the return on investment in Maincoin

21

ICO Model

22

Use of raised funds

24

Incineration

25

Conclusion

26

2

Disclaimer
This document is not an advertising catalog or other document
containing an offer of securities, and is not intended to offer
securities or attract investment in securities in any jurisdiction.

3

About the tokenе
Maincoin token is a secure open source software that runs on the basis
of Ethereum and is supported by hundreds of thousands of users.
Maincoin token is a decentralized digital currency that allows you to make
instant payments around the world.
Maincoin token is a digital money that is better than cash, because all
transactions are anonymous and secure.
Only you can manage all your funds, as the Blockchain technology is an
independent system and does not have third parties who could steal your
funds or somehow affect your transactions.
The main objective of Maincoin is to create a global and independent
financial structure.
This allows us to solve one of the most important problems of different
profile businesses – the creation of an ecosystem in which the token is
used as a single means of payment.
By the time of the ICO, the Maincoin token already has a large number of
markets and real use as a means of payment in a rapidly growing business.
All these factors, of course, guarantee the constant growth of the Maincoin
value and the development of the token ecosystem.
Any company can use Maincoin products to simplify business operations.
It should also be noted that the transition to the use of Maincoin as a means
of settlement in any business, not only simplifies accounting, but also
increases the level of security and independence of the storage of funds.
Maincoin products allow any company to move to a new level
of digital business.

4

Technical specifications, emission
Blockchain

Ethereum network

Token Type

ERC-20

Token Symbol

MNC

Token Name

Maincoin

Max Total Supply

500 000 000 MNC

Explorer 1

explorer link

Explorer 2

explorer link

Github coins

github link

Сontract

contract link

Maincoin token is issued on the Ethereum blockchain and is an
implementation of the ERC-20 standard.
All tokens that implement the ERC-20 interface are supported by
most crypto exchanges and crypto wallets that work with Ethereum.
The token's smart contract is written in the Solidity language.
The token fully complies with the international security standards
ISO/IEC 27001 and CryptoCurrency Security Standard (CCSS).
No additional issue of Maincoin tokens is provided.

5

Legal restrictions
Maincoin token is not a direct or indirect analogue of shares, claims,
ownership rights or legal interest in relation to Maincoin Money company.
Maincoin token does not entitle its holders to any promises of payments,
dividends, unconditional income, profits, or investment returns, and is not
intended to secure the issuance of securities in the British Virgin Islands,
the United Kingdom, or any other jurisdiction.
According to the terms of the issue, the Maincoin token:
1) Non-refundable and cannot be exchanged for cash money by
Maincoin Money company or any affiliated person of Maincoin Money.
2) Does not provide the token holder any rights in any form with respect
to Maincoin Money (or any of its affiliates), or its income or assets, including
but not limited to any right to receiving dividends, income, ownership or
share, security, any voting, distribution, redemption, liquidation, property
(including all forms of intellectual property or licensing rights), or other
financial or legal rights or equivalent rights, or any other form of
participation in relation to Maincoin Money company.
3) Is not a contract for difference or any other contract, the purpose
orintended purpose of which is to make a profit or avoid losses.
4) Is not a security, debt obligation or any other type of financial instrument.
5) Is not a loan to Maincoin Money company or any of its affiliates.
The ownership of the Maincoin token does not contain any rights, express
or implied, other than the right to use the Maincoin token as a means that
can be used to participate in the Maincoin Money company ecosystem.

6

Investing in cryptocurrency
Cryptocurrency is a type of digital currency, the accounting of internal
units of account of which is provided by a decentralized payment system
that operates in a fully automatic mode.
A cryptocurrency is simply a number denoting the amount of data in units
of account that is recorded in the corresponding position of the data transfer
protocol information packet.
At the same time, the system does not contain any information about the
owners of addresses, which is the basis for the anonymity of transaction
participants.
The absence of any internal or external administrator for cryptocurrencies
leads to the fact that banks, tax, judicial and other public or private authorities
cannot influence the transactions of any participants in the payment system.
Cryptocurrency is not subject to inflation and is an independent monetary unit.
Cryptocurrency has its own value and can be exchanged for real money.
Like any other medium of exchange, cryptocurrency can be used to
exchange for goods or for another currency. The list of companies that
accept cryptocurrency to pay for goods and services is constantly growing,
and ATMs with the withdrawal function are located all over the world.
Cryptocurrency debit cards are being created that allow their owners to
pay for purchases through regular terminals in stores.
In other words, all this proves that cryptocurrency is a full-fledged
electronic money.
Users of the system recognize the value of cryptocurrency, which means
that cryptocurrency is no different from ordinary money.
Cryptocurrencies automate monetary relations and make them completely
transparent, in other words, cryptocurrency is a new generation of money.

7

Since the issue of coins is limited, according to the rules of the economy,
the cryptocurrency can only become more expensive in price.
Cryptocurrency is an independent monetary unit.
Its issue is not regulated by anyone and does not control the movement of
funds in the account.
The Maincoin task is to integrate the token into the business, release
products for the business and create various business areas.
All this, in turn, creates a natural demand for Maincoin, so the Maincoin
token is an excellent and reliable tool for investment.

8

Maincoin mission and plans
Any business cannot develop without applying economic innovations
and minimizing the costs of its scaling.
Companies that conduct various businesses, starting work with Maincoin,
get the opportunity to completely reduce the cost of various types of reporting
and accounting, as well as significantly increase cost savings due to low
commissions and instant transactions.
The Maincoin Money company conducts active technological developments
based on the Maincoin token, introducing it into various commercial business
structures.
The main core of the Maincoin token application is, first of all, settlements
between users for goods and services, as well as mutual settlements
between large and small enterprises.
Thanks to the products of Maincoin Money company, the development
of the token ecosystem is aimed specifically at the commercial segment
of scaling, thus the token is gaining more and more users and is widely
used in the economy.
Thus, the token's liquidity and its shortage in the market are created,
which in turn leads to the constant demand for the token and its
investment benefits.
Maincoin Mission:
- Create a universal currency for any business.
- Expand the token ecosystem.
- Create commercial products.
- Develop new business areas based on the token.

9

Maincoin products and developm
The Maincoin token is created to participate in various business processes
as a means of payment.
Maincoin Money company is actively developing products that allow you to
automate and simplify any business processes.
The priority in product development is a high degree of protection and ease
of use, as well as the complete absence of third-party influence.
Maincoin-based products are created for the rapidly scalable ecosystem
of any enterprise, whether it is a large construction company or a simple
online store.
An important point is that in all products, the token is used as a means
of payment.
This use of the token throughout the ecosystem provides a constant
potential for its value to grow.

10

Maincoin Products:

Maincoin Wallet
Official website: maincoinwallet.com

The Maincoin Wallet allows you to quickly and easily make transactions
around the world.
The wallet is easy to use and high-tech.
Complete absence of controlling organizations or any intermediaries.
The Maincoin Wallet is adapted to different types of cryptocurrencies
and has a high degree of protection.
The Maincoin Wallet is an upgraded version of the original Myetherwallet.
The Maincoin Wallet uses the original Myetherwallet networks and libraries.

11

Maincoin Explorer
Official website: explorer.maincoin.money

Maincoin Explorer is a fully transparent token reporting.
All the movements of funds are tracked around the world at any time,
which greatly simplifies the conduct of any business and also reduces
the cost of accounting.

Product functionality:
- Online token exchange rate.
- Conversion of the token into various currencies and cryptocurrencies.
- Trading turnover on the exchanges and the total capitalization of the token.
- Token transaction history.
- History of token transactions on exchanges.
- Report on token holders including all exchanges.

12

Maincoin Merchant
Official website: merchant.maincoin.money

Maincoin Merchant is a unique technical solution for
automating any business.

Product functionality:
- Accepting Maincoin token payments on any website of various
companies in automatic mode.
- Instant API payments of the Maincoin token to any number of wallets.
The product has a high degree of protection and complete
independence in use.
Storage and management of funds-is made only from platformer wallets,
excluding any action of third parties.

13

Maincoin products in development:

Boom-Bo
Official website: boom-bo.com

Product Description:
A free bulletin board that presents all kinds of goods and services,
cars, real estate, job ads, various stores, entertainment, leisure,
charity, and much more.
Features of the resource:
Payment for advertising on the Boom-Bo resource, as well as paid
announcements will be available in various fiat currencies, as well
as in the Maincoin token.
At the same time, in the Maincoin token, payment for advertising or
paid announcements will be at a 50% discount.
The task of the resource in the ecosystem of the Maipcoin token:
- Increase the trading turnover of the Maincoin token.
- Scale and popularize the Maincoin token as a means of payment.

14

MAIN KASSA
Official website: mainkassa.com

MAIN KASSA is a multi-currency crypto-aggregator for accepting
and paying payments online on any website.
MAIN KASSA is the second version of the Maincoin Merchant product.

Updates:
- This version supports working with a variety of cryptocurrencies.
- New improved interface.
- Improved resource performance.
- Storage and management of funds only from users wallets.
- Instant API payments of Maincoin and other cryptocurrencies
to any number of wallets.

15

Features of the resource:
The payment for the services of the MAIN KASSA is made in the
Maincoin token.
The task of a resource in the Maincoin ecosystem:
- Increase the number of companies using the Maincoin token
as a means of payment.
- Scale and popularize the Maincoin token.
- Increase the trading turnover of the Maincoin token.

16

AVTOMAIN BUSINESS
Official website: avtomain.biz

AVTOMAIN BUSINESS is a monitoring of any earnings on the network.
The site will feature:
Invest projects, farms, matrices, exchanges, casinos, ICO projects,
cryptocurrencies, EPS, wallets, exchangers, aggregators, studios,
various business monitoring, stores, business forum, MLM leaders,
bloggers and much more.
The resource will also provide detailed instructions for beginners on
how to build your business online.

Features of the resource:
This resource will cover the entire spectrum of earnings on the network.
Each resource or company represented on the AVTOMAIN BUSINESS
platform will be rated by the platform users themselves.

17

Also, real reviews will be published about each company,
blogger or MLM leader.
The payment for advertising on the AVTOMAIN BUSINESS resource,
as well as the listing, will be available in the Maincoin token.
The task of the resource in the ecosystem of the Maincoin token:
- Scale and popularize the Maincoin token as a means of payment.
- Increase the trading turnover of the Maincoin token.

18

RED Change
Official website: red-change.com

RED Change is the monitoring of exchange rates and exchanges.
This resource will show in real time all the current rates, as well as the
reserves of exchange services of currencies and cryptocurrencies,
including the exchange rates and pairs of the Maincoin token.
Features of the resource:
Create an instant purchase and sale of the Maincoin token
for any currency or cryptocurrency.
A lot of exchangers and exchanges working with the Maincoin token.
The task of the resource in the ecosystem of the Maincoin token:
- Easy, fast purchase and sale of the Maincoin token for any currency
or cryptocurrency.
- Increase the trading turnover of the Maincoin token.
- Scale and popularize the Maincoin token as a means of payment.

19

20

Justification of the return on investment
Maincoin Money company is actively developing products based on Maincoin.
One of the main tasks of the Maincoin Money company is to add a token to
various business areas as a means of payment.
The issue of the Maincoin token is limited, and according to the rules of the
economy, the token can only become more expensive in price since its
quantity is constant, which in itself means a complete absence of inflation.
The Maincoin token is an independent monetary unit, since its emission is
not regulated by anyone, and does not control the movement of funds in the
account, which makes it an absolutely attractive investment tool.
The Maincoin token and its products are the result of the development
of new technologies in the field of blockchain.
The core of Maincoin products is the innovation of business processes
in the field of finance.
The broad Maincoin product line aims to increase the liquidity and scalability
of the Maincoin token.
The Maincoin token as a separate investment tool and Maincoin products
allow each user to extract maximum profit and build their capital.
Business algorithms are built exclusively on the open personalization
of doing business for each user.
Complete absence of third parties or controlling organizations.
All transactional activity is public.
Users funds and profits are controlled by the users themselves.
Rapidly developing in the world of blockchain technologies, Maincoin
provides the community with only optimal solutions and independent
financial instruments.
The Maincoin token and its ecosystem of products is not just a platform
for earning money, it is a new independent movement in the field of
decentralized finance, which is based on the unique business process
of crypto technologies.

21

ICO Model
The primary distribution of the Maincoin token is made
by conducting an ICO.
At the time of the ICO, the token is in "freeze".
After the completion of all ICO stages, the entire token
emission is completely "unfrozen".

The ICO model is implemented in several stages.
Total emission

500,000,000 MNC

ICO distribution

250,000,000 MNC

Unallocated tokens participating in the ICO will be destroyed.
The ICO is held on the Livecoin exchange.
The distribution of tokens is planned in the following order:

Stage

Date

Discount

Presale 1

29.10.2018-29.11.2018

75%

15 cents

Presale 2

29.11.2018-19.12.2018

50%

30 cents

Presale 3

19.12.2018-08.01.2019

25%

45 cents

General sale

Of necessity

0%

60 cents

22

Token Price

250,000,000 MNC tokens remain in the company's Maincoin Money fund
to develop the token ecosystem and fund product development.
The starting price of the token entering the market after the end of the
ICO and the complete "unfreezing" of the emission:
1 MNC = 0,60 US dollars
Further, the price for one token will be determined as a result of market
trading and depend on the demand for the token.

23

Use of raised funds by
Maincoin Money company
Maincoin token emissions tasks:
- Creation and development of unique business products using the token.
- Expanding the token ecosystem.
- Creating an advertising budget to promote the token.
- Creating an advertising budget to promote a ready-made business,
where the Maincoin token will be used as a means of payment.
- Integration of the token into its own ecosystem as a means of payment.
- Integration of the token into a third-party ecosystem as a means of payment.
- Financing of the token's entry into the markets.

24

Incineration
Maincoin Money company reserves the right to burn the token if necessary.
The personal fund of the Maincoin Money company may be subject to
burning (250,000,000 MNC), as well as any Maincoin asset owned by
Maincoin Money company.
The Maincoin Money company may conduct additional token burning
actions in conjunction with the Maincoin community.
All ongoing actions for the disposal of the token are officially posted
on the token's website - maincoin.money in the "ACTIONS" section.

25

Conclusion
Using Maincoin products, any enterprise can create a financial ecosystem
that can significantly reduce the costs of many positions that modern
businesses face.
The Maincoin token participates in the turnover of real business as an
independent means of payment.
Maincoin Money's products automate any business process.
Scaling the business and the token ecosystem can be implemented
in various ways, including by connecting a third-party business to the
token ecosystem.
Using Maincoin and its products, users can get not only the ability to
move any financial flows within a few seconds, but also resources for
the development of their companies.
All this allows us to conclude that the Maincoin token is a promising and
relevant coin for both various businesses and ordinary users.

26

