WRX TOKEN

Contents
01 Introduction

02 WazirX Roadmap

Introduction to WazirX

P2P into Binance Ecosystem

WazirX P2P

Fiat on-ramps & Partnerships

Smart Token Fund (STF)
WazirX trading platform
WazirX Security
Product highlights
Revenue Model
Acquisition by Binance

03 Introduction to WRX

04 Team

WRX Value

Founders

WRX Burning Mechanism
IEO

05 Press Coverage
Press Coverage

01 Introduction

There are 44 Million
cryptocurrency wallet
users around the globe.

Crytocurrency wallet
holders
Global population

Do you realise that they constitute barely 0.6% of the world population? It’s
because there’s a massive obstacle in cryptocurrency’s path towards global
adoption.

Billions of people around the globe are unable to participate in the
cryptocurrency revolution today because of Fiat <> Cryptocurrency conversion
difficulty. People in developing and underdeveloped nations form a huge chunk
of the global population, and face regulatory uncertainty, banking delays and
issues in buying or selling of cryptocurrencies with fiat. Moreover, available fiat
on-ramp options have several issues:
High fiat deposit and/or withdrawal fees
2-5 days to process withdrawal
Custody of fiat funds
The next phase of cryptocurrency adoption happens when the world’s
Fiat <> Cryptocurrency problem is solved for the masses. WazirX will bridge this

global fiat - cryptocurrency gap for the world with our one-of-a-kind solution WazirX Peer-to-Peer (P2P).

WazirX has already solved this problem for 1 Billion people!
We launched the world’s first auto-matching P2P engine in India when the
Indian central bank banned banks from dealing with cryptocurrency
businesses, and exchanges started shutting shops. As of today, WazirX P2P is
the go-to method to deposit and withdraw INR in India, and growing steadily.
We don’t plan to stop with India. We’ll take P2P to more developing and
underdeveloped countries and provide them with a simple fiat on-ramp
solution that they deserve. What sets us apart:
Instant and auto-matching engine
Low fees
Available 24x7
No custody of fiat funds
We’re happy to share that we’re not alone in this mission. WazirX has been
acquired by Binance. It will continue operating as an independent brand of
Binance with a focus on P2P.

In this whitepaper, we’ll explain:
The impact of our acquisition
Role of WazirX P2P in the Binance and global cryptocurrency ecosystem
Our product roadmap in detail

This document also introduces WRX, a utility token backed by WazirX, and its
role in the ecosystem. We launched WRX tokens to involve our community in
helping us build out WazirX, and reward them accordingly for contributing to
our success. This helps us stay true to the ethos of cryptocurrency and
blockchain - to share the rewards of WazirX’s success with our early adopters
and supporters.

Introduction to WazirX
We launched WazirX trading platform in March, 2018. The word “Wazir” is
another name for the “queen” piece in chess. It's the strongest piece, and it can
play any move. We launched WazirX initially for Indians, with the aim to provide
the most powerful queen piece of the cryptocurrency ecosystem, a solid
product that offers:
World-class UX
Transparent communication
The most powerful cryptocurrency trading software you deserve
At the time of launch, we distributed WRX tokens to our early users to give
them an opportunity to be part of our success. We want to ensure that when
we list WRX, our community will benefit the most.

WazirX P2P
Shortly after WazirX launch, the Indian central bank (Reserve Bank of India)
imposed a blanket ban on banks from dealing with cryptocurrency exchanges

and businesses. It was a huge setback for the Indian cryptocurrency industry
with many exchanges shutting shop. Not wavering from our mission, our team
innovated and created WazirX P2P which is the world’s first auto-matching P2P
engine.

Traditionally, peer-to-peer systems are classified listings where you need to go
through the following steps to purchase cryptocurrencies with fiat money:
Scroll through each order listing
Analyse each order volume, price, and payment method to figure if it aligns
with your requirements
Choose multiple orders depending on your trade size
Figure out the legitimacy of each trader before you deal with them
We call these traditional P2P systems as P2P 1.0 as it’s cumbersome and not
beginner-friendly.

Here’s how WazirX P2P works:
Buyer places USDT buy order, gets instantly auto-matched with a seller
Pays directly to the seller’s bank account
Both buyer and seller confirm sending and receiving payment respectively
WazirX transfers the escrowed USDT to the buyer’s wallet

WazirX P2P is the next generation P2P system - P2P 2.0 - that has simplified the
process of depositing and withdrawing fiat tremendously. Users find it easy to
use because the P2P interface and experience is similar to regular trading.

Moreover, the P2P system has been designed in a way that matching and
order-completion happen in record time. It’s hassle-free with zero learning
curve, and available 24x7.

Since its inception, WazirX P2P has been a game changer in the Indian
cryptocurrency ecosystem. In 2018, when traditional P2P options launched in
India, WazirX P2P emerged as the top choice for users. Multiple P2P trade
matches happen every minute, and 90% of P2P trades complete within 10
minutes. P2P is growing at a rate of over 9.5% every month.
Total P2P trades: 1.3 Million
Average execution time taken: 15 minutes
We’re proud to say that today, WazirX P2P is the cheapest, fastest, simplest and
go-to method for fiat <> cryptocurrency conversion in India. With its
tremendous success in India, we’re confident that WazirX P2P can solve the fiat
<> cryptocurrency conversion problem globally for many more countries.

Smart Token Fund (STF)
At WazirX, our mission is to involve everyone in the blockchain revolution. We
keep innovating, and building features to involve more people, and drive
adoption. STF aims to involve enthusiasts who don’t have time to trade, don’t
know which token to trade or how to trade. It’s a simplified community-driven
initiative where cryptocurrency enthusiasts can find expert traders, and let
them grow their cryptocurrency portfolio on WazirX. We have an existing
community of pro traders who can trade with the funds of new entrants and in
return, earn commission on the profits they make.
15+ STFs
1000+ investors
25% commission on profits

WazirX trading platform
Resonating with our mission, our crypto-to-crypto markets are also available
for everyone around the world.
Global exchange with fiat on-ramp
80+ cryptocurrencies
Trade in USDT, BTC & INR (fiat) markets
High volume

WazirX Security
Major chunk of funds in cold storage
Multi-signature wallet system
Each fund withdrawal request needs a two-factor authentication
Strong KYC/AML guidelines
Regular security audits

Product highlights
170,000+ app installs with an average rating of 4.5+ stars
Multilingual support
Available on Android, iOS, Web, Mac & Windows

Product highlights
170,000+ app installs with an average rating of 4.5+ stars
Multilingual support
Available on Android, iOS, Web, Mac & Windows

P2P

Trading

Trading Orderbook

STF

Revenue Model
Source

Details

Trading fees

Maker fees of 0.1% Taker fees of 0.25%

Withdrawal fees

Variable

P2P fees

Variable

Acquisition by Binance
After 20 months of building India’s biggest and the most trusted
cryptocurrency exchange, we have been acquired by Binance. Founded by
Changpeng Zhao and Yi He, Binance is the world’s leading cryptocurrency
exchange. Binance’s vision is to increase the freedom of money globally and
significantly improve lives around the world. We at WazirX also share this
mission with Binance.

02 WazirX Roadmap
With a population of over 1 Billion, the Indian market is a sleeping giant. With our
tried and tested P2P technology, strong product and team, WazirX is already a
market leader in the Indian cryptocurrency ecosystem. On the other hand,
Binance has a massive brand reputation and community presence all around
the world.

WazirX’s acquisition by Binance is another step towards making cryptocurrency
accessible to everyone in the world, and achieving our mission of involving
everyone into the blockchain revolution. Together, we’ll be able to maximise
cryptocurrency adoption not only in India, but every developing nation where
fiat on-ramps have to be built.

WazirX will remain an independent brand of Binance. We’ll have more resources
and community access to further our cause for cryptocurrency in India and
globally. We’ll also take WazirX P2P to more countries and solve the fiat <>
cryptocurrency conversion issue.

WazirX will revolutionise the P2P segment the way
Binance has revolutionised crypto-to-crypto segment.

Phase 1: P2P into Binance Ecosystem
Now that we’re part of the Binance family, we’ll be able to tap into Binance’s
user-base and provide them with a fiat on-ramp solution. In Quarter 1 of 2020,
WazirX P2P will be integrated into the Binance fiat gateway. This will allow the
Indian users on Binance to deposit and withdraw INR directly from within the
app.

Next, we’ll enable P2P for existing Binance users across multiple countries to
help them deposit and withdraw their respective fiat currencies from within
Binance.

Phase 2: Fiat on-ramps & Partnerships
Fiat on-ramps
We intend to launch fiat on-ramps for multiple developing and underdeveloped
countries where there are regulatory uncertainties and banking delays.

Partnerships
There are several cryptocurrency wallets, exchanges, and DeFi apps
that don’t have a fiat on-ramp. There’s no easy way for such apps
to onboard new users, and this, in turn, obstructs their user growth.
We’re confident that WazirX P2P will bridge this gap. We’ll partner
with these platforms and integrate WazirX P2P to provide a
seamless on-ramp to these platforms. WRX token has a crucial role
to play in our mission.

WazirX

Binance
Ecosystem

WazirX
P2P

De-Fi Apps

Exchange
& Wallet

Partnerships

03 Introdution to WRX
WazirX’s native token, WRX is the utility token forming the backbone of the
WazirX ecosystem. WRX token will be based on Binance blockchain. Its total
supply is 1 Billion. The token holders will be rewarded with various benefits on
the trading exchange, and in our future projects - whether or not detailed within
this white paper.
Allocation of WazirX tokens:

%

WRX Tokens

Where?

10%

100,000,000

IEO Public Sale

5%

50,000,000

Private Sale

30%

300,000,000

Foundation

20%

200,000,000

Product & Marketing

20%

200,000,000

Partnership & Ecosystem

11.10%

111,000,000

WRX Airdrop

3.9%

39,000,000

WRX Mining

WRX Value
Some benefits for WRX token holders include but are not limited to:
50% Trading Fee Discount: We’ll offer a 50% trading fee discount to the people
who pay fees using WRX tokens. We plan to run this program for 4 years in the
following manner:
Year 1: 50% trading fee discount
Year 2: 25% trading fee discount
Year 3: 12.5% trading fee discount
Year 4: 6.25% trading fee discount
WRX mining: Users in each country will be able to mine, unlock, and earn WRX
tokens by performing P2P trades

Token airdrop: Applicable when different companies agree to provide tokens to
WazirX users in return for listing on WazirX or as a way to be promoted to all
WazirX users. In such cases, we’ll distribute such airdrops based on the amount
of WRX you hold.

Listing fee: There might be fees for listing tokens on WazirX, and you can pay
the same using WRX tokens.

Margin fee: If you do margin trading on WazirX, there may be a fee or interest on
the borrowed amount. You can pay the same using WRX tokens.

Voting power: The token holders will also get the power to vote in listings, or
future feature releases.

WRX Burning Value
Every quarter, we’ll burn WRX tokens based on the trading volume on our
crypto-to-crypto platform until we destroy 10% of WRX. We’ll eventually burn
100M WRX tokens. As we launch fiat on-ramps to more countries, WRX tokens
will have an integral role to play in the same.

IEO
WRX IEO will be done on Binance Launchpad. Our token sale on Binance
Launchpad will not only help us expand P2P to more countries faster, but also
give us further access to resources and support from across the Binance
ecosystem.

04 Team
WazirX app has a simple and neat user interface and experience ensuring that
everyone - from novice cryptocurrency enthusiasts to pro traders - can trade
on our platform seamlessly. Our product and communications align with our
mission of involving everyone into the blockchain revolution. We have over
170,000 app installs and an average rating of 4.4. Most of the app reviews
mention our seamless UX and P2P.

WazirX has been built by a team of hardcore traders and passionate blockchain
believers. We have a lean and high-calibre team that believes in innovating and
delivering high quality output every time. Our founders are seasoned
entrepreneurs who have over 15 years of experience in building successful
global products. They are also the people behind Crowdfire - a social media
management product - with over 20 Million users.

The founders are:

Nischal Shetty
Founder, CEO at WazirX. Also founded Crowdfire after an allnight coding session. India’s top Blockchain influencer on Twitter
with over 60K followers. Forbes 30 under 30. He's on a mission
to involve everyone in the blockchain revolution.
https://twitter.com/nischalshetty
https://www.linkedin.com/in/nischalshetty/

Sameer Mhatre
Co-founder, CTO at WazirX. Co-founder of Crowdfire. ExNetwork 18. Oversees all things tech. An ace developer (fullstack) and designer wrapped into one. A huge Java and JS fan.
Solves programming puzzles on TopCoder when not busy
https://twitter.com/sameermhatret
https://www.linkedin.com/in/sameerhmhatre/

Siddharth Menon
Co-founder, COO at WazirX. Co-founded Crowdfire. Innovated
the world's first auto order matching P2P exchange and more.
Believes in adoption of open and decentralised economy.
https://twitter.com/BuddhaSource
https://www.linkedin.com/in/siddharthmenon/

05 Press Coverage
Cointelegraph
https://cointelegraph.com/news/binance-buidls-bridge-with-indiaacquiring-leading-bitcoin-exchange

Coindesk
https://www.coindesk.com/binance-enters-indian-market-withacquisition-of-crypto-exchange-wazirx

Bitcoin.com
https://news.bitcoin.com/crowdfire-founders-plan-to-launch-indianbitcoin-exchange/

Bitcoinist
https://bitcoinist.com/crowdfire-founder-nischal-shetty-launch-indiaswazirx-bitcoin-exchange/

The Merkle
https://themerkle.com/binance-now-caters-to-indian-bitcoin-usersfollowing-wazirx-acquisition/

The Block
https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/47852/binance-acquires-indiancrypto-exchange-wazirx-to-serve-over-1-billion-people-of-the-country

Financial Express
https://www.financialexpress.com/industry/sme/crypto-exchange-bitcoinrbi-ban-wazirx-binance-bitcoin-price-binance-acquires-wazirx-nischalshetty-blockchain-cryptocurrency-bill-india/1771277/

CNBC Awaaz
https://twitter.com/CNBC_Awaaz/status/1197527055459651584

Moneycontrol
https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/technology/indian-digital-assetplatform-wazirx-acquired-by-the-worlds-largest-cryptocurrencyexchange-4663391.html

NDTV Profit
https://www.ndtv.com/business/crowdfire-founder-shrugs-off-arunjaitleys-warnings-set-to-launch-own-cryptocurrency-exchange-1808431

Yourstory
https://yourstory.com/2018/07/ban-crypto-assets-notwithstandingwazirx-believes-future-cryptocurrencies/

NewsX
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l9QVCtmfbWo

Business Standard
https://www.business-standard.com/article/markets/bitcoin-exchangesnow-are-working-on-olx-quikr-model-platforms-118070300037_1.html

