XENSOR
Project

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

Contents

XENSOR Project
1

Abstract

2

Project Background
2.1 Project Background
2.2 Smart City Market
2.3 Problems

3

Xensor Project
3.1 Project Description
       1) Asset Surveillance - Monitoring Farmland,
Factory, and Buildings
       2) Asset Control - Automation of Farmland and
Factory Facilities
       3) Communication Network
       4) Data Market
3.2 Business Model
       1) Asset Automation Based on Hardware Sensors
       2) IoT Network Based on Gateways
       3) Decentralized Market
3.3 XSOR Token Economy

4

Token Information

5

Roadmap

6

Team & Advisor
6.1 Team
6.2 Advisor

7

Business Partners

03

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

1

Abstract

The advent of the fourth industrial revolution amidst novel innovations and technology
induced revolutionary changes in everyday life. In particular, technology behind internet of things
(IoT) began to receive much attention in constructing smart cities for its potential to solve
problems concerning superannuated cities, traffic, energy deficiency, and crime. As both
developed and developing nations competed to promulgate “city revolution” by devising smart
cities, the importance of IoT garnered even more importance.

However, many hurdles, such as high investment costs and the dangers of data hacking,
impeded the rapid commercialization of IoT. In order to manage entire cities and assets,
communication networks requiring the manual installation of numerous gateways had to be
implemented, and the costs of server construction and maintenance amounted to considerable
burden. As a result, insufficient funding of the communication networks led to holes in security
that increased the vulnerability to hacking.

Xensor, a business that previously developed and manufactured IoT sensor hardware,
tackled the challenge to provide the IoT infrastructure required to construct smart cities. In doing
so, Xensor decided to adapt blockchain technology and cryptocurrency ecology to solve the two
ever-looming problems of IoTs: frail security, and high investment as well as maintenance costs.
Xensor project has elevated the efficiency of data storage and transactions by automating specific
points of data management, and has simultaneously lowered the cost of constructing IoT
communication networks. In addition, Xensor plans to apply an incentive policy to its hardware
clients by tokenizing data and providing monetary value to the data provided. These aspects play
important roles in the structure of the Xensor ecology.

All in all, Xensor project has taken the challenge to integrate IoT, one of the main
components of the fourth revolution, and blockchain to help construct efficient and effective
smart cities.

04

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

2

Project Background

2.1

Smart City Outline
The fourth revolution has imbued our lives with diverse revolutionary technologies.

Among the various innovations, smart cities based on IoT technology has received much
attention as the solution to problems that traditional cities experienced. A smart city refers to a
city in which its facilities and buildings have been applied with information and communications
technology (ICT), including IoT, to provide effective services to its residents. The concept of smart
cities is expanding throughout the world as the infrastructure and service that can solve problems
concerning superannuated cities, traffic, energy deficiency, and crime.

As an amalgam of multiple revolutionary technologies and city infrastructures, a smart
city provides features that can be classified into the following three categories: infrastructure,
data, and service. The “infrastructure” category begins the construction of ICT-based businesses,
and includes elements concerning the city, ICT, and spatial information. The “data” category
processes the information gathered by the infrastructure, and expands the network both vertically
and horizontally, encompassing both IoT and data-sharing. Finally, it is the job of the “service”
category to analyze the data and produce algorithms to better the lives of the residents and
achieve “city revolution.” Among these elements, the technology behind IoTs, which connects
devices and infrastructures within the city and gathers data from various sensors, takes the
largest share of the pie as its market size is the greatest and as it requires the most investment.

Recently, both develop and developing countries are competing with each other to
promote their own version of a smart city that serves as the model of city revolution. By
expanding city infrastructure that uses state-of-the-art technologies, they all aim to create smart
cities that simultaneously improve the quality of life and reflect characteristics of the country, city,
and culture.

05

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

[ Fig 1 ]  Concept of Smart City Service

2.2

Smart City Market
[ Fig 2 ]  Global Smart City Market(US$bn), 2018 - 2025

$3,000
21.7%

$2,577

20.6%

$2,500

19.5%
18.5%
17.5%

$2,094

16.3%
$2,000
$1,721
$1,428

$1,500
$1,194
$1,007
$1,000

$858
$737

$500

$2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

Source: ”Smart Cities Market Analysis & Segment Forecasts to 2025”, Grand View Research, 2018

06

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

The global smart city-related market is expected to reach USD 1.4 trillion by 2020.
Currently showing annual average growth rate of 10~19%, the market is showing particularly
rapid growth in the Asia Pacific region. Asia is expected to increase its share of the global city
market from 28.6% in 2016 to 33.9% by 2025.

Smart factories and smart buildings that constitute a smart city are heavily influenced by
IoT sensors, which enable the monitoring of traffic, energy, living, welfare, and water
management systems. Consequently, the global sensor market, where Xensor’s expertise lies, is
expected to show noteworthy growth from USD 5.1 Billion in 2016 to USD 6.3 Billion in 2021.
Over 1 billion new sensors are released every year, and average annual increase rate of total
sensor production surpasses 50%.

[ Fig 3 ]  Global Sensor Market Size(US$Mn). 2016 - 2021

$9,000
CAGR 4.5%

$8,000
$7,000
$6,000
$5,100

$5,330

$5,569

$5,820

$6,082

$6,356

$5,000
$4,000
$3,000
$2,000
$1,000
$2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

Source: Markets and Markets

2.3

Problems
IoT technology, which serves as the backbone of a smart city, comes with considerable

cost and dangers of security. A smart city needs to efficiently store, utilize, and share data
resulting from hyperconnected services, platforms, networks, and devices. Therefore, significant
investment on gargantuan cloud services that manage sensors and data is required, and even

07

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

after the construction of the infrastructure, continued flow of capital is necessary for the
maintenance of the sensor hardware and servers.

Security is of paramount importance in IoTs that store data, monitor, and govern smart
cities. In fact, the nature of IoT networks poses a grave security risk: a compromise of a single
device may result in the hacking of the entire communication network, rendering substantial
damages. However, because of the high investment costs of IoT solutions, many users have
resorted to cheaper devices characterized by substandard security.

Moreover, the dissemination of cheaper devices undermine the credibility of the collected
data because of their vulnerability to data hacking. Establishing the veracity of the data is crucial
to the function of IoTs as the collected data is used to produce algorithms that provide the very
services. The production of algorithm itself requires high level of difficulty, expertise, and
technology, and thus comes at a great cost. If the credibility of the data is undermined, the
algorithm also becomes futile, adding to the damages suffered by the investors.

08

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

3

Xensor Project

3.1

Project Description
Xensor, a business that previously developed and manufactured IoT sensor hardware,

tackled the challenge to provide the IoT infrastructure required to construct smart cities. Xensor
project has improved the efficiency of data storage and transactions by automating specific
aspects of data management, thus lowering the cost of constructing IoT communication
networks. Xensor has also integrated blockchain technology in device networks to ensure the
credibility of the data, and plans to implement an incentive policy to its hardware clients.

Blockchain technology is ideal in supporting data transmission, automated services,
monitoring, and mutual sharing services among devices within IoT networks. Although some
drawbacks hamper the processing time and scalability of blockchain technology, the
shortcomings can be compensated by utilizing IoT-specific main-nets and exploring everdeveloping innovations.

Xensor will develop its project in the following order: asset surveillance, asset control,
communication networks, and data market. Since Xensor has developed and commercialized
sensor devices, the two stages of asset surveillance and asset control are already obtaining good
results. Currently, Xensor is in the process of creating scalable IoT communication networks that
can easily be adapted in various fields.

[ Fig 4 ]  Xensor device launch product

09

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

1) Asset Surveillance - Monitoring Farmland, Factory, and Buildings

Traditionally, various equipment were necessary to safely monitor a building 24 hours a
day, requiring many maintenance personnel to make rounds of inspection and tend the
equipment. However, hiring a considerable number of employees for every building is inefficient
in terms of both time and cost. Such a feat can easily be replaceable by automated sensors.

A large building with total floor area of 26,000㎡ requires approximately 200 sensors.
Connecting all these sensors with wired cables is both physically and financially cumbersome,
and even with conventional wireless sensors, the fee per circuit is still costly due the
shortcomings of IoTs.

Xensor provides the solution by applying low power wide area (LPWA) technology to
connect sensors that are as far as 15km from the gateway. Even with a vast number of walls, a
building with total floor areas of 26,000㎡ and 66,000㎡ requires only one and three gateway(s),
respectively, to construct communication networks that span the entire area. With Xensor, only
about five maintenance personnel is required to cover a total floor area of 26,000㎡.

LPWA technology is commonly used in the area of IoT to conduct remote surveillance
and monitoring by sensors that relay low-capacity data at slower rates. Previously, technology
such as Bluetooth and Zigbee were used in IoT connections, but these were limited to an area
with a radius of only 30 meters. LPWA made a breakthrough in IoT technology by allowing
transmission of data over dozens of kilometers, consuming less electricity, and conserving
battery life over many years.

Currently, Xensor is providing its asset surveillance service to many large-scale buildings
in Seoul, Incheon, Vietnam, and Indonesia.

10

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

[ Fig 5 ]  Xensor Solution - Asset Surveillance

2) Asset Control - Automation of Farmland and Factory Facilities

Farms that are immense in size, as those in California, require helicopters to spread
agricultural pesticides. In order to reduce the inefficiency that results from using expensive
helicopters, a novel method of watering the crops by installing equipment in sectors of the
farmland was developed. Unfortunately, the innovation could not distinguish areas that were well
watered from those that were dry, and the produce worsened.

Such a problem can be easily solved by using sensors that monitor the humidity of the
land and IoT technology that controls water from the sprinklers. However, it would be very
inefficient to use conventional IoT technology such as Wifi and Bluetooth to cover the vast area
of farmland.

Xensor provides the solution with its miniaturized gateways that can connect sensors
within a 15km radius. Xensor’s products can thus create automated “smart farms,” and even
smart factories using the same technology in appropriate positions.

11

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

[ Fig 6 ]  Xensor Solution - Environmental Control

3) Communication Network

Just dozens to hundreds of Xensor gateways, which act as the backbone of the
infrastructure of smart cities, can establish IoT communication networks throughout an entire city
at a low cost. Currently, Xensor provides asset surveillance and control services with its sensors
and communication technology. By advancing into the third stage, the communication network,
Xensor will be able to provide more diverse services using the scalability of IoT devices and
networks.

Many countries in South-East Asia, which are home to some of the most famous tourist
spots, are vulnerable to calamities and safety accidents due to the lack of city infrastructure. For
instance, drainage systems become easily overburdened during rainy season, compromising
roads and thus tourist services. IoT solutions may provide a solution to this predicament, but the
substantial cost deters the city from installing the necessary equipment.

Xensor, however, can be an option for these cities in developing countries of South-East
Asia, as it can set up communication networks at a lower installation cost and an even lower
maintenance fee.

12

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

[ Fig 7 ]  Xensor Solution - Communication Networks

4) Data Market

Xensor sensors can currently detect fire, leaks, power failures, and malfunction, and a
new sensors with functions detecting air quality and floating population are under development.
The aggregated data from these sensors may contain danger-related information of a particular
area, providing valuable information with monetary value.

For example, black boxes in automobiles are usually used to assess car accidents, but car
insurance companies provide discounts if the car owner chooses to install a black box in his or
her car. Similarly, Xensor can provide data that predicts danger and accelerates emergency
response, which may also lead to financial incentives after the installment of Xensor devices.

Xensor gateways can be applied in all services of a smart city once it is installed. In
particular, if autonomous cars are commercialized, Xensor can be used to calculate the risk of car
accidents and predict traffic. Xensor can collect data from any location, and it is not limited to
buildings, farmlands, and factories. Such data can be of fiscal value to insurance companies,
investment banks, governmental institutions, consulting firms, and credit card companies.

One of the goals of Xensor is to provide a decentralized data market platform based on
blockchain and cryptocurrency technology. Data purchasers from anywhere in the world may
procure data uploaded in the data market with cryptocurrency, and data sellers may sell the
collected data, creating a healthy market with continuous flow of demand and supply.

13

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

3.2

Business Model
The business model of Xensor is composed of three elements. Firstly, Xensor provides

asset automation services using its sensors. Secondly, Xensor creates IoT communication
networks using its gateways. Thirdly, Xensor establishes a decentralized data market where the
data collected from the previous two items may be traded.

The three elements of Xensor’s business model operate the business under an organic
relationship that begins with the automation service enabled by Xensor sensors. They are backed
by sensor, terminal, and network technology, which are applicable in both immobile and mobile
assets, and in both miniature and large assets.

Many sensors detect various changes, including temperature, vibration, movement, and
weight. The data collected by these sensors are stored within the interior and then integrated at
the terminal. The terminal exists in various forms in a smart city, be it an automobile, air
conditioner, or a heavy machinery. The integrated data can be shared and analyzed through the
decentralized data market to provide various services for the assets of the smart city.

[ Fig 8 ]  Xensor Business Model

1) Asset Automation Based on Hardware Sensors

14

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

Xensor devices for the smart city is composed of multiple sensors. Internal machinery
includes temperature, humidity, and gyro sensors that detect earthquakes and misplacement.
External sensors detect fire, leak, power shortage, and malfunction. The fire sensor developed by
Xensor deserves a special mention as it is different from other commercial fire sensors.

One of the main reasons for fire in a building is that sprinklers are turned off in a particular
area that is undergoing interior redesign or partial reconstruction. Sprinklers need to be
disconnected lest a sparkle due to welding may set off the sprinklers of the entire building. The
workers have to take the risk of working amidst inflammable gas such as toluene produced from
paint or paint thinners while the sprinklers are turned off.

Fire sensors developed by Xensor, however, can detect 14 types of flammable gases
unlike conventional fire sensors that can only detect carbon monoxide. By continuing to add
powerful and distinctive features in its sensors, Xensor strives to produce even more specialized
data.

[ Fig 9 ]  Capacity of a Fire-detecting Xensor Sensor

15

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

2) IoT Network Based on Gateways

Xensor sensors can perform both asset surveillance and asset control by using their
sensed data to operate a controller. An IoT network is required for this task, but devising a
network using conventional technology such as WiFi and Bluetooth are very inefficient.

Xensor’s miniaturized gateway can provide wireless communication around a 15km
radius, enabling the construction of highly efficient IoT networks. Despite its minimized size,
Xensor gateway can control an entire farm, and solve environmental tasks such as controlling city
lights and car parking.

Moreover, installment of mere hundreds of Xensor gateways can create a communication
network that covers an entire city. With the integration of sensors and communication
technology, the network can provide diverse services for the city, including but not limited to
environment surveillance and control. The global efforts to design smart cities is a great
opportunity for Xensor to provide communication infrastructure to developing countries in SouthEast Asia

The second-generation Xensor devices currently under development have achieved
enough miniaturization that they can function even within IoT networks of wire services. In other
words, the new Xensor devices become fully functional just after attaching onto point-of-sale
(POS) devices in franchise and retail stores. Xensor has partnered with Nuvent, a rising commerce
company in Korea, to install sensors in the head office buildings of ten franchise firms and 3,400
retail stores. By doing so, Xensor will be able to collect diverse data that will be conducive to the
creation of a decentralized data market.

3) Decentralized Data Market

Xensor sensors can currently detect fire, leaks, power failures, and malfunction, and a new
sensors with functions detecting air quality and floating population are on the way. Data collected
by the sensors may be used to evaluate risks and prevent accidents. Demand for such data as well
as the subjects of investigation are increasing with time. Danger-related information of a particular
area is crucial for the automated services of smart cities. Xensor project aims to create a
decentralized data market where the data collected from its sensors are put to practical use.

16

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

In addition to the danger-related data from its sensors, Xensor, with its secondgeneration models, will accrue even more data by targeting the POS market. Data that
accumulates with the dissemination of Xensor gateways will by anonymized and encrypted to be
uploaded in the data market, and when a buyer purchases the data with cryptocurrency, the
supplier will also be rewarded.

3.3

XSOR Token Economy
The token economy of Xensor project will be used to establish the aforementioned

business model. Accordingly, the most important entity in Xensor’s token economy is the Xensor
hardware holder, who collects data from the sensors which play a key role in the business model
and the token economy.

The Xensor team has decided that mining blocks by producing and verifying blocks is
analogous to running business using Xensor sensors that produce and verify data. By the same
analogy, the Xensor hardware holder corresponds to a node that produces and verifies blocks,
and the act of producing data corresponds to mining blocks. Xensor’s token economy will operate
on such “data-mining” model.

The holder of the Xensor hardware can install an application provided by Xensor to check
the amount of data collected by his or her hardware. Xensor will provide an opportunity for the
holder to participate as a “miner” in Xensor’s token economy by asking if he or she agrees to
offer the data for the data market.

If the Xensor hardware holder refuses to offer the data, he or she will not participate in
the token economy, and will receive neither rewards nor disadvantages. If the holder does indeed
agree to offer the data, he or she will become a constituent of Xensor’s token economy and
receive rewards for offering the data.

17

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

[ Fig 10 ]  Xensor Token Economy Flow

Hardware Maintenance Parts
Purchase(XSOR)

XSOR Reward encashment

Xenix

Hardware
Owner
(Person)

Gateway

DATA MKT

Data
aggregation

DATA Pool

Data
transmission

Data supply
XSOR Reward

Proceesing Data

Data
Anonymous

Data
randomization

Data
Buyer
Data supply
Fiat

Non-processed
Data
Data
Buyer

XSOR Pool
Hardware
Owner
(Company)

List data by
category
(e.g. Person,
Company,
cities, etc)

Exchange
XSOR

XSOR payment

Data
Buyer

The data collected from Xensor hardwares will be anonymized and edcrypted for the data
market to remove any kind of personal information. This process will occur then the data reaches
the Xensor gateway. Before being uploaded into the decentralized data market, anonymization
and edcryption will automatically occur as the data are classified into corresponding categories.
The purchaser will not be able to determine from whom or where the purchased data comes
from, but will be able to examine the individual category of the data.

The data purchaser will need to purchase XSOR tokens to purchase data from Xensor’s
decentralized data market. The Xensor hardware holder may sell his or her XSOR tokens received
as compensation for offering data in exchanges for fiat or other cryptocurrencies. The holder may
also use the XSOR tokens to purchase services rendered by Xensor, including solution services,
hardware maintenance, hardware purchase, and communication network service. The data
purchaser and the hardware holder propel the XSOR token economy.

The XSOR tokens paid by the data purchaser will be stored in the XSOR Token Pool. After
the deduction of a minimal fee required to operate the services, all the newly stored XSOR tokens
will be used to compensate Xensor hardware holders who offer their data.

18

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

The amount of XSOR tokens given as compensation for offering data will be determined
after consideration of services that can be purchased using XSOR tokens, including
communication network fee and maintenance fee.

19

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

4

Token Information

Xensor will manage “XSOR Token Pool,” supplied with a fixed number of XSOR tokens,
to reward the Xensor hardware users for providing data. Sixty-five percent of the initial circulating
supply will be stored in the XSOR Token Pool, but as the number of Xensor hardware holders
increase, the stored tokens may deplete quickly. Therefore, the Xensor Team will use a portion of
its profits to purchase XSOR tokens from the market and store them in the XSOR Token Pool.

The tokens in the XSOR Token Pool will only be used to reward the Xensor hardware
owners for providing data, and no entity will be able to approach the pool for other purposes.

1) Token Allocation

Reserve 10%
XSOR Sale 20%
Team & Advisor 10%

Next Business 30%

2) Fund Allocation

XSOR Token Pool 30%

Market Stabilization 10%

Legal ＆ Operations 20%

Software Development 30%

Manufature 40%

20

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

5

Roadmap

Business Roadmap

Development Roadmap

2019 1Q
XS Token Private-sale
XS Token Pre-sale

2019 2Q
XSOR Coin crowd-sale
Indonesian Factories Installations

2019 2Q
XSOR Project Launch

2019 3Q
Vietnamese Factories Installations

2019 4Q
Korean retail Stores Installations

2019 4Q
Fine Dust Sensor Launch
xensor B2C device launch
(xensor 2.0)

2020 1Q
Xensor Network Installations
in Miding Vietnam

2020 1Q
Floating population sensort
Launch

2020 2Q
Data Market

21

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

6

Team & Advisor

6.1

Team

CEO · Daryl Lee

COO · Joongsoo Sim

CMO · Yoseop Seon

Publisher at thatGEAR

COO at xenixstudio

National Information-

Member at Judicial

Director of Business Development

society Agency

Information and

at APIS Project

National IT Industry-

Development Committee

Promotion Agency

of Supreme court

2 patent of block chain

Council Member of Songdo

technology

Blockchain forum

CTO · Yeongho Kim

CDO · Moonjoo Na

Contents · Seunghwan Hwang
Journalist of theGEAR

CTO at xenixstudio

CDO at xenixstudio

CTO at xenixmedia

CDO at xenixmedia

CMO at xenixstudio

Master of Engineering,

CDO at Mahatra

CMO at xenixmedia

Computer Science

CDO at nzple

CMO at Mahatra

(Sungsil University)

22

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

6.2

Advisor

Bitsonic, CEO · Jinwook Shinn EVVO IoT, CEO · Ryan WONG
CEO at Bitsonic

SDChain, CEO · David S. Pan

CEO at Evvo Group

CEO at SD Chain

CEO at Scoopmedia

CEO at Evvo IoT

Director of IoT Asia

CEO at Drive T

Executive Director

Marketing at Arm

Adviser of IONIA

of CCM Group, SG

Masters in Finance, Harvard

University of Texas, Austin

BA in UC Berkeley

Hexlant, CEO · Jinwoo Noh
CEO at Hexlant

23

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

7

Business Partner

24

IoT network for automation of machinery and
fixed asset management

XENSOR
Project

Investor Notice

This document has been written to convey information regarding the platform the
XENSOR team is planning and developing. This document only serves to convey information, and
no content in this document states or guarantees its accuracy or safety.

This document includes information from sources that the XENSOR team deemed
credible, but the XENSOR team does not guarantee the accuracy and suitability of the
information. The XENSOR team is not legally liable to any losses or damages due to the
information regarding the team or the XENSOR platform.

The contents of this document contain information written after interpretation at the
time, and are subject to change without notice, and the XENSOR team has no responsibility to
revise, rectify, or renew this document.

Those who receive this document must rely on their own knowledge, investigation,
judgement, and evaluation of the information included in this document, and the XENSOR team,
employees, and shareholders have no responsibility or obligation whatsoever to anyone for
statements or opinions that are mentioned, alluded, produced, included, derived, or omitted from
this document.

This document shall only be used in Xensor.cc, and for no purpose can anyone
redistribute, copy, transfer, or publish this document entirely or partly without the prior written
consent of the XENSOR team.

